[COMMENT1]UNITED									A
NATIONS



             General Assembly


                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/53/161
                                                                          25 February 1999

                                                                          



Fifty-third session
Agenda item 110 (c)


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/53/625/Add.3)]


53/161.   Situation of human rights in Nigeria

    The General Assembly,

    Reaffirming that all Member States have an obligation to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, as stated in the Charter of the United Nations and as elaborated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,1 the International Covenants on Human Rights2 and other applicable human rights instruments,

    Recalling that Nigeria is a party to the International Covenants on Human Rights, the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,3 the Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women4 and the Convention on the Rights of the Child,5 as well as the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights,6


    Recalling its previous resolutions and those of the Commission on Human Rights on the situation of human rights in Nigeria,

    Welcoming the positive contribution Nigeria has been making through the Economic Community of West African States in support of democratic governance within the West African region,

    Noting the encouraging positive steps taken by the Government of Nigeria, which deserve full support and have been welcomed by the people of Nigeria as well as the international community, including the Commonwealth and the European Union,

    1.	Takes note with appreciation of the interim report of the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on the situation of human rights in Nigeria;7

    2.	Welcomes the announcement by General Abdulsalami Abubakar of a new programme of transition to civilian rule, and notes with satisfaction the commitment of the Government of Nigeria to fully restoring democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights;

    3.	 Notes with satisfaction the concrete steps taken to date to implement the programme of transition, and looks forward to further measures in this regard;

    4.	Expresses its full support to the Government of Nigeria in the important process of building a peaceful and stable Nigeria rooted in the rule of law, democracy and respect for human rights;

    5.	Welcomes the fact that the Government of Nigeria is reviewing remaining decrees, and urges it to repeal urgently those which have an impact on the fundamental human rights of its citizens;

    6.	Encourages all sectors of Nigerian society to participate actively and constructively in the process of democratization and the re-establishment of civilian rule;

    7.	Notes with satisfaction the establishment of the Independent National Electoral Commission and the issuance of a detailed timetable for the election process, to be completed with the holding of presidential elections on 27 February 1999 and the handing over to a civilian government on 29 May 1999;

    8.	Welcomes the invitations extended by the Government of Nigeria to the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity, the Commonwealth and the European Union to provide electoral assistance and to observe the elections at all levels so as to ensure the credibility of the electoral process;

    9.	Welcomes also the declared commitment of the Government of Nigeria to protect freedom of expression, in particular freedom of the press, and notes with interest the first steps taken to reform laws governing the media;

    10.	Welcomes further the release of political prisoners, including the twenty detainees from Ogoni, and expresses the hope for swift clarification of cases still pending;


    11.	Stresses that the establishment and strengthening of national structures and institutions in the field of human rights are of the utmost importance for the promotion and protection of human rights in Nigeria;

    12.	Commends the National Human Rights Commission of Nigeria for its important work, and encourages the Government of Nigeria to provide the Commission with adequate resources and to respect fully its independence;

    13.	Calls upon all States and the organizations of the United Nations system to support generously the ongoing transitional process in Nigeria, in particular the electoral process and the strengthening of national capacity in the field of human rights, and to respond positively to requests for technical assistance and advisory services;

    14.	Welcomes the decision of the European Union, the Commonwealth and the Government of the United States of America to start lifting sanctions on Nigeria in the light of the progress made towards the restoration of democratic government and respect for human rights;

    15.	Calls upon the Government of Nigeria to abide by its freely undertaken obligations under the International Covenants on Human Rights2 and other human rights instruments in the implementation of the programme of transition and beyond;

    16.	Also calls upon the Government of Nigeria to follow up the recommendations contained in the interim report of the Special Rapporteur;7

    17.	Welcomes the invitation to visit the country extended to the Special Rapporteur;

    18.	Decides to continue its consideration of the situation of human rights in Nigeria with a view to concluding it at its fifty-fourth session in the light of further developments and relevant decisions of the Commission on Human Rights at its fifty-fifth session.



	85th plenary meeting
	9 December1998

1 Resolution 217 A (III).
2 Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
3 Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.
4 Resolution 34/180, annex.
5 Resolution 44/25, annex.
6 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1520, No. 26363.
7 See A/53/366 and Add. 1. 
[COMMENT1]
<<ODS JOB NO>>N9976789E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/53/161<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

A/RES/53/161
Page 2





99-76789	/...


99-76789	/...

A/RES/53/161
Page 


	A/RES/53/161
	Page 



	/...


	/...





