<<ODS JOB NO>>N9776729E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/51/183<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>

UNITED						A
NATIONS



			General Assembly



									Distr.
									GENERAL

									A/RES/51/183
									11 February 1997






Fifty-first session
Agenda item 97 (d)


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Second Committee (A/51/605/Add.4)]


51/183.Implementation of the outcome of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States

	The General Assembly,

	Recalling its resolutions 49/100 and 49/122 of 19 December 1994 and 50/116 of 20 December 1995, on or related to the implementation of the outcome of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, and reaffirming Commission on Sustainable Development decision 4/161 on the review of the implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,2 

	Reaffirming that, because the development options of small island developing States are limited, there are special challenges to devising and implementing sustainable development plans, and that small island developing States will be constrained in meeting such challenges and overcoming obstacles to sustainable development without the active support and cooperation of the international community,

	Stressing the need for greater attention to priority areas of the Programme of Action, particularly climate change and sea-level rise, energy resources, tourism resources, biodiversity resources, transport and communications and science and technology,


	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General3 on action taken at the international, regional and national levels, inter alia, by the organs, organizations and bodies of the United Nations system to implement the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,2 and welcomes in particular the action that has been taken by the Department for Policy Coordination and Sustainable Development of the Secretariat to support the system-wide implementation of the Programme of Action;

	2.	Stresses the importance of maintaining the Small Island Developing States Unit within the above-mentioned Department, and requests the Secretary-General to maintain the Unit at an appropriate level of staff and improve the structure and organization of the Unit, in accordance with resolution 49/122;

	3.	Welcomes the work being done by the regional commissions to support activities to coordinate the outcome of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States;

	4.	Takes note of the decisions of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, at its ninth session, related to programme support for small island developing countries,4 within the framework of the Programme of Action, and requests the Secretary-General to implement fully the relevant provisions of resolution 49/122;

	5.	Calls upon Governments, as well as the organs, organizations and bodies of the United Nations system, other intergovernmental organizations and non-governmental organizations, to continue to implement fully all the commitments and recommendations that were made at the Global Conference, and to continue to take the necessary actions for effective follow-up to the Programme of Action, including action to ensure the provision of the means of implementation under chapter XV thereof;

	6.	Recognizes the importance of the technical assistance programme, known as SIDSTAP, and the information network for small island developing States, known as SIDSNET, in the overall implementation of the Programme of Action, takes note of the progress made by the United Nations Development Programme in implementing resolution 49/122, and requests the Programme, in cooperation with Governments, to continue its actions to implement fully all provisions in order to operationalize the two mechanisms;

	7.	Takes note of the support that has been provided by the Commission on Sustainable Development to following up the implementation of the Programme of Action in accordance with resolution 49/122 and the Programme of Action itself, and invites the Commission at its fifth session to continue its support for and attention to the Programme of Action, as an integral part of the preparations for the special session of the General Assembly to be held in June 1997;
	8.	Requests that, in the context of the special session of the General Assembly, specific modalities be recommended for examining all outstanding chapters of the Programme of Action and for undertaking the full review of the Programme of Action in 1999;

	9.	Welcomes the inclusion of the development of a vulnerability index for small island developing States as part of the work programme of the Department for Policy Coordination and Sustainable Development for 1996-1997, and in this regard requests the Secretary-General, in collaboration with the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the United Nations Environment Programme, other relevant United Nations organizations and non-United Nations organizations, to prepare a report based on the views of relevant experts on the vulnerability index, in 1997;

	10.	Requests the Committee for Development Planning, at its thirty-second session, to formulate its views and recommendations on the above-mentioned report, in order to submit those views to the General Assembly at its fifty-third session, through the Economic and Social Council, and to make this information available to the Commission on Sustainable Development;

	11.	Requests the Department for Policy Coordination and Sustainable Development, in its coordinating role, to look into appropriate modalities for mobilizing resources for the effective implementation of the Programme of Action and provide information thereon;

	12.	Requests closer collaboration and greater transparency between the Department for Policy Coordination and Sustainable Development and the United Nations Development Programme for effective implementation of SIDSTAP, and requests detailed information to be made available to Governments on actions taken to this effect;

	13.	Welcomes the report of the High-level Panel Meeting on Island Developing Countries5 on the challenges faced by island developing countries, particularly in the area of external trade, considered by the Commission on Sustainable Development at its fourth session;

	14.	Requests the Secretary-General to seek the views of Governments on the creation of an informal open-ended working group within the existing  International Framework of Action for the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction,6 with the membership of all concerned States, including all relevant sectors in disaster reduction, with a view to ensuring full integration and participation of small island developing States in the mapping of a concerted strategy for disaster reduction into the twenty-first century and in improving access to disaster and warning information in order to enhance the capability of small island developing States with respect to disaster management;

	15.	Stresses that small island developing States are particularly vulnerable to global climate change and sea-level rise, and that the potential effects of global climate change and sea-level rise are increased strength and frequency of tropical storms and inundation of some islands, with loss of exclusive economic zones, economic infrastructure, human settlements and culture, and urges the international community to support small island developing States in their efforts to adapt to the sea-level rise that will be experienced as a result of the impact of greenhouse gases that have already been emitted into the atmosphere;


	16.	Calls upon the international community, including the Global Environment Facility, within the framework of its operational strategy, to support commercial energy development in small island developing States based on those environmentally sound renewable sources with demonstrated viability, to support improvement of the efficiency of existing technologies and end-use equipment based on conventional energy sources, and to assist with the financing of investments necessary to expand energy supplies beyond urban areas;

	17.	Also calls upon the international community, where appropriate, to support the efforts of and to provide assistance to small island developing States with respect to improving and acquiring, through appropriate investment incentives and innovative measures, the means of maritime transport and development of infrastructure in small island developing States, such as airports, harbours, roads and telecommunications;

	18.	Welcomes actions at the national and regional levels by small island developing States, and invites all Governments, with the assistance of international and regional organizations, to provide information on all of their major activities under the Programme of Action so as to enable an adequate review of the actions taken at the national and regional levels;

	19.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-third session a report on the plans, programmes and projects for the sustainable development of small island developing States that have been implemented in response to the Programme of Action, as well as those that are under implementation and those that are envisaged for implementation within five years of the date of the report;

	20.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-second session, under the item entitled "Environment and sustainable development", the sub-item entitled "Implementation of the outcome of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States";

	21.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-second session a progress report on the particular actions taken to implement the present resolution.

	86th plenary meeting
	16 December 1996
     1 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1996, Supplement No. 8 (E/1996/28), chap. I, sect. C.
     2 Report of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Bridgetown, Barbados, 25 April-6 May 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.94.I.18 and corrigenda), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
     3 A/51/354.
     4 See TD/378.
     5 E/CN.17/1996/IDC/3-UNCTAD/LLDC/IDC/3.
     6 See resolution 44/236, annex.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------



 

 


97-76729	/...


97-76729	/...

A/RES/51/183
Page 1



	A/RES/51/183
	Page 1




97-76729	/...


97-76729	/...

A/RES/51/183
Page 2



	A/RES/51/183
	Page 2




	/...


	/...

A/RES/51/183
Page 4



	A/RES/51/183
	Page 4







