[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 17 December 2015
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/70/490)]
70/175.	United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners (the Nelson Mandela Rules)


	The General Assembly,
	Guided by the principal purposes of the United Nations, as set out in the Preamble to the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,1 and inspired by the determination to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, without distinction of any kind, and in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small, to establish conditions under which justice and respect for the obligations arising from treaties and other sources of international law can be maintained and to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom,
	Recalling all standards and norms in crime prevention and criminal justice developed at the request of the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice and adopted or recommended by the General Assembly, or adopted by a United Nations congress on the prevention of crime and the treatment of offenders, and recognizing that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is a source of inspiration for the United Nations standards and norms in crime prevention and criminal justice,
	Bearing in mind the long-standing concern of the United Nations for the humanization of criminal justice and the protection of human rights, and emphasizing the fundamental importance of human rights in the daily administration of criminal justice and crime prevention,
	Aware that the Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners2 have been the universally acknowledged minimum standards for the detention of prisoners and that they have been of significant value and influence, as a guide, in the development of correctional laws, policies and practices since their adoption by the First United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders, in 1955,
	Mindful that, in the Salvador Declaration on Comprehensive Strategies for Global Challenges: Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Systems and Their Development in a Changing World,3 Member States recognized that an effective, fair, accountable and humane criminal justice system was based on the commitment to uphold the protection of human rights in the administration of justice and the prevention and control of crime, and acknowledged the value and impact of the United Nations standards and norms in crime prevention and criminal justice in designing and implementing national crime prevention and criminal justice policies, procedures and programmes,
	Taking into account the progressive development of international law pertaining to the treatment of prisoners since 1955, including in international instruments such as the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,4 the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights4 and the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment5 and the Optional Protocol thereto,6
	Recalling the United Nations standards and norms in crime prevention and criminal justice related to the treatment of prisoners and to alternatives to imprisonment adopted since 1955, in particular the procedures for the effective implementation of the Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners,7 the Body of Principles for the Protection of All Persons under Any Form of Detention or Imprisonment,8 the Basic Principles for the Treatment of Prisoners,9 the United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for Non-custodial Measures (the Tokyo Rules)10 and the basic principles on the use of restorative justice programmes in criminal matters,11
	Bearing in mind the need for vigilance with regard to the specific situation of children, juveniles and women in the administration of justice, in particular while they are deprived of their liberty, as called for in the United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Administration of Juvenile Justice (the Beijing Rules),12 the United Nations Guidelines for the Prevention of Juvenile Delinquency (the Riyadh Guidelines),13 the United Nations Rules for the Protection of Juveniles Deprived of their Liberty14 and the United Nations Rules for the Treatment of Women Prisoners and Non-custodial Measures for Women Offenders (the Bangkok Rules),15
	Recalling the United Nations standards and norms in crime prevention and criminal justice adopted since 1955 that provide additional guidance on the treatment of prisoners, including the Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials,16 the Principles of Medical Ethics relevant to the role of health personnel, particularly physicians, in the protection of prisoners and detainees against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment,17 the Basic Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials,18 the Principles on the Effective Investigation and Documentation of Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment19 and the United Nations Principles and Guidelines on Access to Legal Aid in Criminal Justice Systems,20
	Aware of regional principles and standards related to the treatment of prisoners, including the Principles and Best Practices on the Protection of Persons Deprived of Liberty in the Americas, the revised European Prison Rules, the Kampala Declaration on Prison Conditions in Africa,21 the Arusha Declaration on Good Prison Practice22 and the Principles and Guidelines on the Right to a Fair Trial and Legal Assistance in Africa,
	Recalling its resolution 65/230 of 21 December 2010, entitled "Twelfth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice", in which it requested the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice to establish an open-ended intergovernmental expert group to exchange information on best practices, as well as national legislation and existing international law, and on the revision of existing United Nations standard minimum rules for the treatment of prisoners so that they reflect recent advances in correctional science and best practices,
	Recalling also its resolutions 67/188 of 20 December 2012, 68/190 of 18 December 2013 and 69/192 of 18 December 2014, entitled "Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners", in particular resolution 68/190, in which it took note with appreciation of the work done by the Expert Group on the Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners, and resolution 69/192, in which it emphasized that efforts should be made to finalize the revision process, building on the recommendations made at the three meetings of the Expert Group and the submissions of Member States,
	Mindful that, in its resolution 68/190, it took into consideration the recommendations of the Expert Group with regard to the issues and the rules of the Standard Minimum Rules that had been identified for revision in the following areas:
	(a)	Respect for prisoners' inherent dignity and value as human beings (rules 6, para. 1; 57-59; and 60, para. 1),
	(b)	Medical and health services (rules 22-26; 52; 62; and 71, para. 2),
	(c)	Disciplinary action and punishment, including the role of medical staff, solitary confinement and reduction of diet (rules 27, 29, 31 and 32),
	(d)	Investigation of all deaths in custody, as well as of any signs or allegations of torture or inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment of prisoners (rule 7 and proposed rules 44 bis and 54 bis),
	(e)	Protection and special needs of vulnerable groups deprived of their liberty, taking into consideration countries in difficult circumstances (rules 6 and 7),
	(f)	The right of access to legal representation (rules 30; 35, para. 1; 37; and 93),
	(g)	Complaints and independent inspection (rules 36 and 55),
	(h)	The replacement of outdated terminology (rules 22-26, 62, 82 and 83 and various others),
	(i)	Training of relevant staff to implement the Standard Minimum Rules (rule 47),
	Mindful also that, in its resolution 69/192, it reiterated that any changes to the Standard Minimum Rules should not lower any of the existing standards, but should reflect recent advances in correctional science and good practices so as to promote safety, security and humane conditions for prisoners,
	Mindful further of the extensive consultative process culminating in the recommendations of the Expert Group, a process spanning a period of five years, consisting of technical and expert pre-consultations, meetings in Vienna, Buenos Aires and Cape Town, South Africa, and the active participation and input of Member States from all regions, assisted by representatives of the United Nations crime prevention and criminal justice programme network and other United Nations entities, including the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, the Subcommittee on Prevention of Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, intergovernmental organizations, including the International Committee of the Red Cross, specialized agencies in the United Nations system, including the World Health Organization, and non-governmental organizations and individual experts in the field of correctional science and human rights,
	Recalling its resolution 69/172 of 18 December 2014, entitled "Human rights in the administration of justice", in which it recognized the importance of the principle that, except for those lawful limitations that are demonstrably necessitated by the fact of incarceration, persons deprived of their liberty shall retain their non-derogable human rights and all other human rights and fundamental freedoms, recalled that the social rehabilitation and reintegration of persons deprived of their liberty shall be among the essential aims of the criminal justice system, ensuring, as far as possible, that offenders are able to lead a law-abiding and self-supporting life upon their return to society, and took note of, inter alia, general comment No. 21 on the humane treatment of persons deprived of their liberty, adopted by the Human Rights Committee,23
	1.	Expresses its gratitude and appreciation to the Government of South Africa for hosting the meeting of the Expert Group on the Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners held in Cape Town, South Africa, from 2 to 5 March 2015 and for providing financial support and leadership throughout the review process, and notes with appreciation the consensus achieved on the nine thematic areas and the rules identified for revision by the Expert Group at its previous meetings;24
	2.	Expresses its appreciation to the Government of Argentina for hosting and financing the meeting of the Expert Group held in Buenos Aires from 11 to 13 December 2012 and to the Government of Brazil for its financial contribution to the meeting of the Expert Group held in Vienna from 25 to 28 March 2014;
	3.	Acknowledges the valuable work accomplished by the bureau of the meeting of the Expert Group held in Vienna in 2014 in preparing, with the assistance of the Secretariat, the documentation for the meeting of the Expert Group held in Cape Town in 2015, in particular the revised consolidated working paper;25
	4.	Notes that in the Doha Declaration on Integrating Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice into the Wider United Nations Agenda to Address Social and Economic Challenges and to Promote the Rule of Law at the National and International Levels, and Public Participation, adopted by the Thirteenth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, held in Doha from 12 to 19 April 2015,26 the Thirteenth Congress welcomed the work of the Expert Group, and took note of the draft updated Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners, as finalized by the Expert Group at its meeting held in Cape Town in March 2015;
	5.	Adopts the proposed revision of the Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners, annexed to the present resolution, as the United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners;
	6.	Approves the recommendation of the Expert Group that the Rules should be known as "the Nelson Mandela Rules", to honour the legacy of the late President of South Africa, Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela, who spent 27 years in prison in the course of his struggle for global human rights, equality, democracy and the promotion of a culture of peace;
	7.	Decides to extend the scope of Nelson Mandela International Day, observed each year on 18 July,27 to be also utilized in order to promote humane conditions of imprisonment, to raise awareness about prisoners being a continuous part of society and to value the work of prison staff as a social service of particular importance, and to this end invites Member States, regional organizations and organizations of the United Nations system to celebrate this occasion in an appropriate manner;
	8.	Reaffirms, in the context of paragraph 5 above, the preliminary observations to the Nelson Mandela Rules, underscores the non-binding nature of the Rules, acknowledges the variety of Member States' legal frameworks, and in that regard recognizes that Member States may adapt the application of the Rules in accordance with their domestic legal frameworks, as appropriate, bearing in mind the spirit and purposes of the Rules;
	9.	Encourages Member States to endeavour to improve conditions in detention, consistent with the Nelson Mandela Rules and all other relevant and applicable United Nations standards and norms in crime prevention and criminal justice, to continue exchanging good practices in order to identify challenges faced in implementing the Rules and to share their experiences in dealing with those challenges;
	10.	Invites the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice to consider, at its upcoming sessions, reconvening the open-ended intergovernmental Expert Group on the Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners for the purpose of identifying the lessons learned, the means to continue to exchange good practices and the challenges faced in the implementation of the Nelson Mandela Rules;
	11.	Encourages Member States to promote the implementation of the United Nations Rules for the Protection of Juveniles Deprived of their Liberty14 and the United Nations Rules for the Treatment of Women Prisoners and Non-custodial Measures for Women Offenders (the Bangkok Rules);15
	12.	Recommends that Member States continue to endeavour to reduce prison overcrowding and, where appropriate, resort to non-custodial measures as alternatives to pretrial detention, to promote increased access to justice and legal defence mechanisms, to reinforce alternatives to imprisonment and to support rehabilitation and social reintegration programmes, in accordance with the United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for Non-custodial Measures (the Tokyo Rules);10
	13.	Notes the importance of a voluntary exchange of experiences and good practices among Member States and with relevant international entities, where appropriate, and the provision of technical assistance to Member States, for the improved implementation of the Nelson Mandela Rules, upon their request;
	14.	Encourages Member States to consider allocating adequate human and financial resources to assist in the improvement of prison conditions and the application of the Nelson Mandela Rules;
	15.	Requests the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime to ensure broad dissemination of the Nelson Mandela Rules, to design guidance material and to provide technical assistance and advisory services to Member States in the field of penal reform, in order to develop or strengthen penitentiary legislation, procedures, policies and practices in line with the Rules;
	16.	Commends the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice for its continuing contributions to the improvement of the administration of justice through the development and refinement of international standards and norms in the field of crime prevention and criminal justice, and calls upon Member States to continue their efforts in this regard;
	17.	Requests the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime to continue to promote the use and application of the United Nations standards and norms in crime prevention and criminal justice by, inter alia, providing advisory services and technical assistance to Member States, on request, including assistance in crime prevention, criminal justice and law reform, and in the organization of training for law enforcement, crime prevention and criminal justice personnel and support in the administration and management of penal and penitentiary systems, thus contributing to the upgrading of their efficiency and capabilities;
	18.	Invites Member States and other donors to provide extrabudgetary resources for the purposes described above, in accordance with the rules and procedures of the United Nations;
	19.	Affirms the important role of the United Nations crime prevention and criminal justice programme network, intergovernmental organizations and non-governmental organizations in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council in the revision process and in contributing to the dissemination, promotion and practical application of the Nelson Mandela Rules in accordance with the procedures for their effective implementation.

80th plenary meeting
17 December 2015


Annex
United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners (the Nelson Mandela Rules)

Preliminary observation 1
	The following rules are not intended to describe in detail a model system of penal institutions. They seek only, on the basis of the general consensus of contemporary thought and the essential elements of the most adequate systems of today, to set out what is generally accepted as being good principles and practice in the treatment of prisoners and prison management.

Preliminary observation 2
1.	In view of the great variety of legal, social, economic and geographical conditions in the world, it is evident that not all of the rules are capable of application in all places and at all times. They should, however, serve to stimulate a constant endeavour to overcome practical difficulties in the way of their application, in the knowledge that they represent, as a whole, the minimum conditions which are accepted as suitable by the United Nations.
2.	On the other hand, the rules cover a field in which thought is constantly developing. They are not intended to preclude experiment and practices, provided these are in harmony with the principles and seek to further the purposes which derive from the text of the rules as a whole. It will always be justifiable for the central prison administration to authorize departures from the rules in this spirit.

Preliminary observation 3
1.	Part I of the rules covers the general management of prisons, and is applicable to all categories of prisoners, criminal or civil, untried or convicted, including prisoners subject to "security measures" or corrective measures ordered by the judge.
2.	Part II contains rules applicable only to the special categories dealt with in each section. Nevertheless, the rules under section A, applicable to prisoners under sentence, shall be equally applicable to categories of prisoners dealt with in sections B, C and D, provided they do not conflict with the rules governing those categories and are for their benefit.

Preliminary observation 4
1.	The rules do not seek to regulate the management of institutions set aside for young persons such as juvenile detention facilities or correctional schools, but in general part I would be equally applicable in such institutions.
2.	The category of young prisoners should include at least all young persons who come within the jurisdiction of juvenile courts. As a rule, such young persons should not be sentenced to imprisonment.

I.	Rules of general application
Basic principles

Rule 1
	All prisoners shall be treated with the respect due to their inherent dignity and value as human beings. No prisoner shall be subjected to, and all prisoners shall be protected from, torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, for which no circumstances whatsoever may be invoked as a justification. The safety and security of prisoners, staff, service providers and visitors shall be ensured at all times.

Rule 2
1.	The present rules shall be applied impartially. There shall be no discrimination on the grounds of race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or any other status. The religious beliefs and moral precepts of prisoners shall be respected.
2.	In order for the principle of non-discrimination to be put into practice, prison administrations shall take account of the individual needs of prisoners, in particular the most vulnerable categories in prison settings. Measures to protect and promote the rights of prisoners with special needs are required and shall not be regarded as discriminatory.

Rule 3
	Imprisonment and other measures that result in cutting off persons from the outside world are afflictive by the very fact of taking from these persons the right of self-determination by depriving them of their liberty. Therefore the prison system shall not, except as incidental to justifiable separation or the maintenance of discipline, aggravate the suffering inherent in such a situation.

Rule 4
1.	The purposes of a sentence of imprisonment or similar measures deprivative of a person's liberty are primarily to protect society against crime and to reduce recidivism. Those purposes can be achieved only if the period of imprisonment is used to ensure, so far as possible, the reintegration of such persons into society upon release so that they can lead a law-abiding and self-supporting life.
2.	To this end, prison administrations and other competent authorities should offer education, vocational training and work, as well as other forms of assistance that are appropriate and available, including those of a remedial, moral, spiritual, social and health- and sports-based nature. All such programmes, activities and services should be delivered in line with the individual treatment needs of prisoners.

Rule 5
1.	The prison regime should seek to minimize any differences between prison life and life at liberty that tend to lessen the responsibility of the prisoners or the respect due to their dignity as human beings.
2.	Prison administrations shall make all reasonable accommodation and adjustments to ensure that prisoners with physical, mental or other disabilities have full and effective access to prison life on an equitable basis.

Prisoner file management
Rule 6
	There shall be a standardized prisoner file management system in every place where persons are imprisoned. Such a system may be an electronic database of records or a registration book with numbered and signed pages. Procedures shall be in place to ensure a secure audit trail and to prevent unauthorized access to or modification of any information contained in the system.

Rule 7
	No person shall be received in a prison without a valid commitment order. The following information shall be entered in the prisoner file management system upon admission of every prisoner:
	(a)	Precise information enabling determination of his or her unique identity, respecting his or her self-perceived gender;
	(b)	The reasons for his or her commitment and the responsible authority, in addition to the date, time and place of arrest;
	(c)	The day and hour of his or her admission and release as well as of any transfer;
	(d)	Any visible injuries and complaints about prior ill-treatment;
	(e)	An inventory of his or her personal property;
	(f)	The names of his or her family members, including, where applicable, his or her children, the children's ages, location and custody or guardianship status;
	(g)	Emergency contact details and information on the prisoner's next of kin.

Rule 8
	The following information shall be entered in the prisoner file management system in the course of imprisonment, where applicable:
	(a)	Information related to the judicial process, including dates of court hearings and legal representation;
	(b)	Initial assessment and classification reports;
	(c)	Information related to behaviour and discipline;
	(d)	Requests and complaints, including allegations of torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, unless they are of a confidential nature;
	(e)	Information on the imposition of disciplinary sanctions;
	(f)	Information on the circumstances and causes of any injuries or death and, in the case of the latter, the destination of the remains.

Rule 9
	All records referred to in rules 7 and 8 shall be kept confidential and made available only to those whose professional responsibilities require access to such records. Every prisoner shall be granted access to the records pertaining to him or her, subject to redactions authorized under domestic legislation, and shall be entitled to receive an official copy of such records upon his or her release.

Rule 10
	Prisoner file management systems shall also be used to generate reliable data about trends relating to and characteristics of the prison population, including occupancy rates, in order to create a basis for evidence-based decision-making.

Separation of categories
Rule 11
	The different categories of prisoners shall be kept in separate institutions or parts of institutions, taking account of their sex, age, criminal record, the legal reason for their detention and the necessities of their treatment; thus:
	(a)	Men and women shall so far as possible be detained in separate institutions; in an institution which receives both men and women, the whole of the premises allocated to women shall be entirely separate;
	(b)	Untried prisoners shall be kept separate from convicted prisoners;
	(c)	Persons imprisoned for debt and other civil prisoners shall be kept separate from persons imprisoned by reason of a criminal offence;
	(d)	Young prisoners shall be kept separate from adults.

Accommodation
Rule 12
1.	Where sleeping accommodation is in individual cells or rooms, each prisoner shall occupy by night a cell or room by himself or herself. If for special reasons, such as temporary overcrowding, it becomes necessary for the central prison administration to make an exception to this rule, it is not desirable to have two prisoners in a cell or room.
2.	Where dormitories are used, they shall be occupied by prisoners carefully selected as being suitable to associate with one another in those conditions. There shall be regular supervision by night, in keeping with the nature of the prison.

Rule 13
	All accommodation provided for the use of prisoners and in particular all sleeping accommodation shall meet all requirements of health, due regard being paid to climatic conditions and particularly to cubic content of air, minimum floor space, lighting, heating and ventilation.

Rule 14
	In all places where prisoners are required to live or work:
	(a)	The windows shall be large enough to enable the prisoners to read or work by natural light and shall be so constructed that they can allow the entrance of fresh air whether or not there is artificial ventilation;
	(b)	Artificial light shall be provided sufficient for the prisoners to read or work without injury to eyesight.

Rule 15
	The sanitary installations shall be adequate to enable every prisoner to comply with the needs of nature when necessary and in a clean and decent manner.

Rule 16
	Adequate bathing and shower installations shall be provided so that every prisoner can, and may be required to, have a bath or shower, at a temperature suitable to the climate, as frequently as necessary for general hygiene according to season and geographical region, but at least once a week in a temperate climate.

Rule 17
	All parts of a prison regularly used by prisoners shall be properly maintained and kept scrupulously clean at all times.

Personal hygiene
Rule 18
1.	Prisoners shall be required to keep their persons clean, and to this end they shall be provided with water and with such toilet articles as are necessary for health and cleanliness.
2.	In order that prisoners may maintain a good appearance compatible with their self-respect, facilities shall be provided for the proper care of the hair and beard, and men shall be able to shave regularly.

Clothing and bedding
Rule 19
1.	Every prisoner who is not allowed to wear his or her own clothing shall be provided with an outfit of clothing suitable for the climate and adequate to keep him or her in good health. Such clothing shall in no manner be degrading or humiliating.
2.	All clothing shall be clean and kept in proper condition. Underclothing shall be changed and washed as often as necessary for the maintenance of hygiene.
3.	In exceptional circumstances, whenever a prisoner is removed outside the prison for an authorized purpose, he or she shall be allowed to wear his or her own clothing or other inconspicuous clothing.

Rule 20
	If prisoners are allowed to wear their own clothing, arrangements shall be made on their admission to the prison to ensure that it shall be clean and fit for use.

Rule 21
	Every prisoner shall, in accordance with local or national standards, be provided with a separate bed and with separate and sufficient bedding which shall be clean when issued, kept in good order and changed often enough to ensure its cleanliness.

Food
Rule 22
1.	Every prisoner shall be provided by the prison administration at the usual hours with food of nutritional value adequate for health and strength, of wholesome quality and well prepared and served.
2.	Drinking water shall be available to every prisoner whenever he or she needs it.

Exercise and sport
Rule 23
1.	Every prisoner who is not employed in outdoor work shall have at least one hour of suitable exercise in the open air daily if the weather permits.
2.	Young prisoners, and others of suitable age and physique, shall receive physical and recreational training during the period of exercise. To this end, space, installations and equipment should be provided.

Health-care services
Rule 24
1.	The provision of health care for prisoners is a State responsibility. Prisoners should enjoy the same standards of health care that are available in the community, and should have access to necessary health-care services free of charge without discrimination on the grounds of their legal status.
2.	Health-care services should be organized in close relationship to the general public health administration and in a way that ensures continuity of treatment and care, including for HIV, tuberculosis and other infectious diseases, as well as for drug dependence.

Rule 25
1.	Every prison shall have in place a health-care service tasked with evaluating, promoting, protecting and improving the physical and mental health of prisoners, paying particular attention to prisoners with special health-care needs or with health issues that hamper their rehabilitation.
2.	The health-care service shall consist of an interdisciplinary team with sufficient qualified personnel acting in full clinical independence and shall encompass sufficient expertise in psychology and psychiatry. The services of a qualified dentist shall be available to every prisoner.

Rule 26
1.	The health-care service shall prepare and maintain accurate, up-to-date and confidential individual medical files on all prisoners, and all prisoners should be granted access to their files upon request. A prisoner may appoint a third party to access his or her medical file.
2.	Medical files shall be transferred to the health-care service of the receiving institution upon transfer of a prisoner and shall be subject to medical confidentiality.

Rule 27
1.	All prisons shall ensure prompt access to medical attention in urgent cases. Prisoners who require specialized treatment or surgery shall be transferred to specialized institutions or to civil hospitals. Where a prison service has its own hospital facilities, they shall be adequately staffed and equipped to provide prisoners referred to them with appropriate treatment and care.
2.	Clinical decisions may only be taken by the responsible health-care professionals and may not be overruled or ignored by non-medical prison staff.

Rule 28
	In women's prisons, there shall be special accommodation for all necessary prenatal and postnatal care and treatment. Arrangements shall be made wherever practicable for children to be born in a hospital outside the prison. If a child is born in prison, this fact shall not be mentioned in the birth certificate.

Rule 29
1.	A decision to allow a child to stay with his or her parent in prison shall be based on the best interests of the child concerned. Where children are allowed to remain in prison with a parent, provision shall be made for:
	(a)	Internal or external childcare facilities staffed by qualified persons, where the children shall be placed when they are not in the care of their parent;
	(b)	Child-specific health-care services, including health screenings upon admission and ongoing monitoring of their development by specialists.
2.	Children in prison with a parent shall never be treated as prisoners.

Rule 30
	A physician or other qualified health-care professionals, whether or not they are required to report to the physician, shall see, talk with and examine every prisoner as soon as possible following his or her admission and thereafter as necessary. Particular attention shall be paid to:
	(a)	Identifying health-care needs and taking all necessary measures for treatment;
	(b)	Identifying any ill-treatment that arriving prisoners may have been subjected to prior to admission;
	(c)	Identifying any signs of psychological or other stress brought on by the fact of imprisonment, including, but not limited to, the risk of suicide or self-harm and withdrawal symptoms resulting from the use of drugs, medication or alcohol; and undertaking all appropriate individualized measures or treatment;
	(d)	In cases where prisoners are suspected of having contagious diseases, providing for the clinical isolation and adequate treatment of those prisoners during the infectious period;
	(e)	Determining the fitness of prisoners to work, to exercise and to participate in other activities, as appropriate.

Rule 31
	The physician or, where applicable, other qualified health-care professionals shall have daily access to all sick prisoners, all prisoners who complain of physical or mental health issues or injury and any prisoner to whom their attention is specially directed. All medical examinations shall be undertaken in full confidentiality.

Rule 32
1.	The relationship between the physician or other health-care professionals and the prisoners shall be governed by the same ethical and professional standards as those applicable to patients in the community, in particular:
	(a)	The duty of protecting prisoners' physical and mental health and the prevention and treatment of disease on the basis of clinical grounds only;
	(b)	Adherence to prisoners' autonomy with regard to their own health and informed consent in the doctor-patient relationship;
	(c)	The confidentiality of medical information, unless maintaining such confidentiality would result in a real and imminent threat to the patient or to others;
	(d)	An absolute prohibition on engaging, actively or passively, in acts that may constitute torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, including medical or scientific experimentation that may be detrimental to a prisoner's health, such as the removal of a prisoner's cells, body tissues or organs.
2.	Without prejudice to paragraph 1 (d) of this rule, prisoners may be allowed, upon their free and informed consent and in accordance with applicable law, to participate in clinical trials and other health research accessible in the community if these are expected to produce a direct and significant benefit to their health, and to donate cells, body tissues or organs to a relative.

Rule 33
	The physician shall report to the prison director whenever he or she considers that a prisoner's physical or mental health has been or will be injuriously affected by continued imprisonment or by any condition of imprisonment.

Rule 34
	If, in the course of examining a prisoner upon admission or providing medical care to the prisoner thereafter, health-care professionals become aware of any signs of torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, they shall document and report such cases to the competent medical, administrative or judicial authority. Proper procedural safeguards shall be followed in order not to expose the prisoner or associated persons to foreseeable risk of harm.

Rule 35
1.	The physician or competent public health body shall regularly inspect and advise the prison director on:
	(a)	The quantity, quality, preparation and service of food;
	(b)	The hygiene and cleanliness of the institution and the prisoners;
	(c)	The sanitation, temperature, lighting and ventilation of the prison;
	(d)	The suitability and cleanliness of the prisoners' clothing and bedding;
	(e)	The observance of the rules concerning physical education and sports, in cases where there is no technical personnel in charge of these activities.
2.	The prison director shall take into consideration the advice and reports provided in accordance with paragraph 1 of this rule and rule 33 and shall take immediate steps to give effect to the advice and the recommendations in the reports. If the advice or recommendations do not fall within the prison director's competence or if he or she does not concur with them, the director shall immediately submit to a higher authority his or her own report and the advice or recommendations of the physician or competent public health body.

Restrictions, discipline and sanctions
Rule 36
	Discipline and order shall be maintained with no more restriction than is necessary to ensure safe custody, the secure operation of the prison and a well ordered community life.

Rule 37
	The following shall always be subject to authorization by law or by the regulation of the competent administrative authority:
	(a)	Conduct constituting a disciplinary offence;
	(b)	The types and duration of sanctions that may be imposed;
	(c)	The authority competent to impose such sanctions;
	(d)	Any form of involuntary separation from the general prison population, such as solitary confinement, isolation, segregation, special care units or restricted housing, whether as a disciplinary sanction or for the maintenance of order and security, including promulgating policies and procedures governing the use and review of, admission to and release from any form of involuntary separation.

Rule 38
1.	Prison administrations are encouraged to use, to the extent possible, conflict prevention, mediation or any other alternative dispute resolution mechanism to prevent disciplinary offences or to resolve conflicts.
2.	For prisoners who are, or have been, separated, the prison administration shall take the necessary measures to alleviate the potential detrimental effects of their confinement on them and on their community following their release from prison.

Rule 39
1.	No prisoner shall be sanctioned except in accordance with the terms of the law or regulation referred to in rule 37 and the principles of fairness and due process. A prisoner shall never be sanctioned twice for the same act or offence.
2.	Prison administrations shall ensure proportionality between a disciplinary sanction and the offence for which it is established, and shall keep a proper record of all disciplinary sanctions imposed.
3.	Before imposing disciplinary sanctions, prison administrations shall consider whether and how a prisoner's mental illness or developmental disability may have contributed to his or her conduct and the commission of the offence or act underlying the disciplinary charge. Prison administrations shall not sanction any conduct of a prisoner that is considered to be the direct result of his or her mental illness or intellectual disability.

Rule 40
1.	No prisoner shall be employed, in the service of the prison, in any disciplinary capacity.
2.	This rule shall not, however, impede the proper functioning of systems based on self-government, under which specified social, educational or sports activities or responsibilities are entrusted, under supervision, to prisoners who are formed into groups for the purposes of treatment.

Rule 41
1.	Any allegation of a disciplinary offence by a prisoner shall be reported promptly to the competent authority, which shall investigate it without undue delay.
2.	Prisoners shall be informed, without delay and in a language that they understand, of the nature of the accusations against them and shall be given adequate time and facilities for the preparation of their defence.
3.	Prisoners shall be allowed to defend themselves in person, or through legal assistance when the interests of justice so require, particularly in cases involving serious disciplinary charges. If the prisoners do not understand or speak the language used at a disciplinary hearing, they shall be assisted by a competent interpreter free of charge.
4.	Prisoners shall have an opportunity to seek judicial review of disciplinary sanctions imposed against them.
5.	In the event that a breach of discipline is prosecuted as a crime, prisoners shall be entitled to all due process guarantees applicable to criminal proceedings, including unimpeded access to a legal adviser.

Rule 42
	General living conditions addressed in these rules, including those related to light, ventilation, temperature, sanitation, nutrition, drinking water, access to open air and physical exercise, personal hygiene, health care and adequate personal space, shall apply to all prisoners without exception.

Rule 43
1.	In no circumstances may restrictions or disciplinary sanctions amount to torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. The following practices, in particular, shall be prohibited:
	(a)	Indefinite solitary confinement;
	(b)	Prolonged solitary confinement;
	(c)	Placement of a prisoner in a dark or constantly lit cell;
	(d)	Corporal punishment or the reduction of a prisoner's diet or drinking water;
	(e)	Collective punishment.
2.	Instruments of restraint shall never be applied as a sanction for disciplinary offences.
3.	Disciplinary sanctions or restrictive measures shall not include the prohibition of family contact. The means of family contact may only be restricted for a limited time period and as strictly required for the maintenance of security and order.

Rule 44
	For the purpose of these rules, solitary confinement shall refer to the confinement of prisoners for 22 hours or more a day without meaningful human contact. Prolonged solitary confinement shall refer to solitary confinement for a time period in excess of 15 consecutive days.

Rule 45
1.	Solitary confinement shall be used only in exceptional cases as a last resort, for as short a time as possible and subject to independent review, and only pursuant to the authorization by a competent authority. It shall not be imposed by virtue of a prisoner's sentence.
2.	The imposition of solitary confinement should be prohibited in the case of prisoners with mental or physical disabilities when their conditions would be exacerbated by such measures. The prohibition of the use of solitary confinement and similar measures in cases involving women and children, as referred to in other United Nations standards and norms in crime prevention and criminal justice,28 continues to apply.

Rule 46
1.	Health-care personnel shall not have any role in the imposition of disciplinary sanctions or other restrictive measures. They shall, however, pay particular attention to the health of prisoners held under any form of involuntary separation, including by visiting such prisoners on a daily basis and providing prompt medical assistance and treatment at the request of such prisoners or prison staff.
2.	Health-care personnel shall report to the prison director, without delay, any adverse effect of disciplinary sanctions or other restrictive measures on the physical or mental health of a prisoner subjected to such sanctions or measures and shall advise the director if they consider it necessary to terminate or alter them for physical or mental health reasons.
3.	Health-care personnel shall have the authority to review and recommend changes to the involuntary separation of a prisoner in order to ensure that such separation does not exacerbate the medical condition or mental or physical disability of the prisoner.

Instruments of restraint
Rule 47
1.	The use of chains, irons or other instruments of restraint which are inherently degrading or painful shall be prohibited.
2.	Other instruments of restraint shall only be used when authorized by law and in the following circumstances:
	(a)	As a precaution against escape during a transfer, provided that they are removed when the prisoner appears before a judicial or administrative authority;
	(b)	By order of the prison director, if other methods of control fail, in order to prevent a prisoner from injuring himself or herself or others or from damaging property; in such instances, the director shall immediately alert the physician or other qualified health-care professionals and report to the higher administrative authority.

Rule 48
1.	When the imposition of instruments of restraint is authorized in accordance with paragraph 2 of rule 47, the following principles shall apply:
	(a)	Instruments of restraint are to be imposed only when no lesser form of control would be effective to address the risks posed by unrestricted movement;
	(b)	The method of restraint shall be the least intrusive method that is necessary and reasonably available to control the prisoner's movement, based on the level and nature of the risks posed;
	(c)	Instruments of restraint shall be imposed only for the time period required, and they are to be removed as soon as possible after the risks posed by unrestricted movement are no longer present.
2.	Instruments of restraint shall never be used on women during labour, during childbirth and immediately after childbirth.

Rule 49
	The prison administration should seek access to, and provide training in the use of, control techniques that would obviate the need for the imposition of instruments of restraint or reduce their intrusiveness.

Searches of prisoners and cells
Rule 50
	The laws and regulations governing searches of prisoners and cells shall be in accordance with obligations under international law and shall take into account international standards and norms, keeping in mind the need to ensure security in the prison. Searches shall be conducted in a manner that is respectful of the inherent human dignity and privacy of the individual being searched, as well as the principles of proportionality, legality and necessity.

Rule 51
	Searches shall not be used to harass, intimidate or unnecessarily intrude upon a prisoner's privacy. For the purpose of accountability, the prison administration shall keep appropriate records of searches, in particular strip and body cavity searches and searches of cells, as well as the reasons for the searches, the identities of those who conducted them and any results of the searches.

Rule 52
1.	Intrusive searches, including strip and body cavity searches, should be undertaken only if absolutely necessary. Prison administrations shall be encouraged to develop and use appropriate alternatives to intrusive searches. Intrusive searches shall be conducted in private and by trained staff of the same sex as the prisoner.
2.	Body cavity searches shall be conducted only by qualified health-care professionals other than those primarily responsible for the care of the prisoner or, at a minimum, by staff appropriately trained by a medical professional in standards of hygiene, health and safety.

Rule 53
	Prisoners shall have access to, or be allowed to keep in their possession without access by the prison administration, documents relating to their legal proceedings.

Information to and complaints by prisoners
Rule 54
	Upon admission, every prisoner shall be promptly provided with written information about:
	(a)	The prison law and applicable prison regulations;
	(b)	His or her rights, including authorized methods of seeking information, access to legal advice, including through legal aid schemes, and procedures for making requests or complaints;
	(c)	His or her obligations, including applicable disciplinary sanctions; and
	(d)	All other matters necessary to enable the prisoner to adapt himself or herself to the life of the prison.

Rule 55
1.	The information referred to in rule 54 shall be available in the most commonly used languages in accordance with the needs of the prison population. If a prisoner does not understand any of those languages, interpretation assistance should be provided.
2.	If a prisoner is illiterate, the information shall be conveyed to him or her orally. Prisoners with sensory disabilities should be provided with information in a manner appropriate to their needs.
3.	The prison administration shall prominently display summaries of the information in common areas of the prison.

Rule 56
1.	Every prisoner shall have the opportunity each day to make requests or complaints to the prison director or the prison staff member authorized to represent him or her.
2.	It shall be possible to make requests or complaints to the inspector of prisons during his or her inspections. The prisoner shall have the opportunity to talk to the inspector or any other inspecting officer freely and in full confidentiality, without the director or other members of the staff being present.
3.	Every prisoner shall be allowed to make a request or complaint regarding his or her treatment, without censorship as to substance, to the central prison administration and to the judicial or other competent authorities, including those vested with reviewing or remedial power.
4.	The rights under paragraphs 1 to 3 of this rule shall extend to the legal adviser of the prisoner. In those cases where neither the prisoner nor his or her legal adviser has the possibility of exercising such rights, a member of the prisoner's family or any other person who has knowledge of the case may do so.

Rule 57
1.	Every request or complaint shall be promptly dealt with and replied to without delay. If the request or complaint is rejected, or in the event of undue delay, the complainant shall be entitled to bring it before a judicial or other authority.
2.	Safeguards shall be in place to ensure that prisoners can make requests or complaints safely and, if so requested by the complainant, in a confidential manner. A prisoner or other person mentioned in paragraph 4 of rule 56 must not be exposed to any risk of retaliation, intimidation or other negative consequences as a result of having submitted a request or complaint.
3.	Allegations of torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment of prisoners shall be dealt with immediately and shall result in a prompt and impartial investigation conducted by an independent national authority in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2 of rule 71.

Contact with the outside world
Rule 58
1.	Prisoners shall be allowed, under necessary supervision, to communicate with their family and friends at regular intervals:
	(a)	By corresponding in writing and using, where available, telecommunication, electronic, digital and other means; and
	(b)	By receiving visits.
2.	Where conjugal visits are allowed, this right shall be applied without discrimination, and women prisoners shall be able to exercise this right on an equal basis with men. Procedures shall be in place and premises shall be made available to ensure fair and equal access with due regard to safety and dignity.

Rule 59
	Prisoners shall be allocated, to the extent possible, to prisons close to their homes or their places of social rehabilitation.

Rule 60
1.	Admission of visitors to the prison facility is contingent upon the visitor's consent to being searched. The visitor may withdraw his or her consent at any time, in which case the prison administration may refuse access.
2.	Search and entry procedures for visitors shall not be degrading and shall be governed by principles at least as protective as those outlined in rules 50 to 52. Body cavity searches should be avoided and should not be applied to children.

Rule 61
1.	Prisoners shall be provided with adequate opportunity, time and facilities to be visited by and to communicate and consult with a legal adviser of their own choice or a legal aid provider, without delay, interception or censorship and in full confidentiality, on any legal matter, in conformity with applicable domestic law. Consultations may be within sight, but not within hearing, of prison staff.
2.	In cases in which prisoners do not speak the local language, the prison administration shall facilitate access to the services of an independent competent interpreter.
3.	Prisoners should have access to effective legal aid.

Rule 62
1.	Prisoners who are foreign nationals shall be allowed reasonable facilities to communicate with the diplomatic and consular representatives of the State to which they belong.
2.	Prisoners who are nationals of States without diplomatic or consular representation in the country and refugees or stateless persons shall be allowed similar facilities to communicate with the diplomatic representative of the State which takes charge of their interests or any national or international authority whose task it is to protect such persons.

Rule 63
	Prisoners shall be kept informed regularly of the more important items of news by the reading of newspapers, periodicals or special institutional publications, by hearing wireless transmissions, by lectures or by any similar means as authorized or controlled by the prison administration.

Books
Rule 64
	Every prison shall have a library for the use of all categories of prisoners, adequately stocked with both recreational and instructional books, and prisoners shall be encouraged to make full use of it.

Religion
Rule 65

1.	If the prison contains a sufficient number of prisoners of the same religion, a qualified representative of that religion shall be appointed or approved. If the number of prisoners justifies it and conditions permit, the arrangement should be on a full-time basis.
2.	A qualified representative appointed or approved under paragraph 1 of this rule shall be allowed to hold regular services and to pay pastoral visits in private to prisoners of his or her religion at proper times.
3.	Access to a qualified representative of any religion shall not be refused to any prisoner. On the other hand, if any prisoner should object to a visit of any religious representative, his or her attitude shall be fully respected.

Rule 66
	So far as practicable, every prisoner shall be allowed to satisfy the needs of his or her religious life by attending the services provided in the prison and having in his or her possession the books of religious observance and instruction of his or her denomination.

Retention of prisoners' property
Rule 67
1.	All money, valuables, clothing and other effects belonging to a prisoner which he or she is not allowed to retain under the prison regulations shall on his or her admission to the prison be placed in safe custody. An inventory thereof shall be signed by the prisoner. Steps shall be taken to keep them in good condition.
2.	On the release of the prisoner, all such articles and money shall be returned to him or her except in so far as he or she has been authorized to spend money or send any such property out of the prison, or it has been found necessary on hygienic grounds to destroy any article of clothing. The prisoner shall sign a receipt for the articles and money returned to him or her.
3.	Any money or effects received for a prisoner from outside shall be treated in the same way.
4.	If a prisoner brings in any drugs or medicine, the physician or other qualified health-care professionals shall decide what use shall be made of them.

Notifications
Rule 68
	Every prisoner shall have the right, and shall be given the ability and means, to inform immediately his or her family, or any other person designated as a contact person, about his or her imprisonment, about his or her transfer to another institution and about any serious illness or injury. The sharing of prisoners' personal information shall be subject to domestic legislation.

Rule 69
	In the event of a prisoner's death, the prison director shall at once inform the prisoner's next of kin or emergency contact. Individuals designated by a prisoner to receive his or her health information shall be notified by the director of the prisoner's serious illness, injury or transfer to a health institution. The explicit request of a prisoner not to have his or her spouse or nearest relative notified in the event of illness or injury shall be respected.

Rule 70
	The prison administration shall inform a prisoner at once of the serious illness or death of a near relative or any significant other. Whenever circumstances allow, the prisoner should be authorized to go, either under escort or alone, to the bedside of a near relative or significant other who is critically ill, or to attend the funeral of a near relative or significant other.

Investigations
Rule 71
1.	Notwithstanding the initiation of an internal investigation, the prison director shall report, without delay, any custodial death, disappearance or serious injury to a judicial or other competent authority that is independent of the prison administration and mandated to conduct prompt, impartial and effective investigations into the circumstances and causes of such cases. The prison administration shall fully cooperate with that authority and ensure that all evidence is preserved.
2.	The obligation in paragraph 1 of this rule shall equally apply whenever there are reasonable grounds to believe that an act of torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment has been committed in prison, irrespective of whether a formal complaint has been received.
3.	Whenever there are reasonable grounds to believe that an act referred to in paragraph 2 of this rule has been committed, steps shall be taken immediately to ensure that all potentially implicated persons have no involvement in the investigation and no contact with the witnesses, the victim or the victim's family.

Rule 72
	The prison administration shall treat the body of a deceased prisoner with respect and dignity. The body of a deceased prisoner should be returned to his or her next of kin as soon as reasonably possible, at the latest upon completion of the investigation. The prison administration shall facilitate a culturally appropriate funeral if there is no other responsible party willing or able to do so and shall keep a full record of the matter.

Removal of prisoners
Rule 73
1.	When prisoners are being removed to or from an institution, they shall be exposed to public view as little as possible, and proper safeguards shall be adopted to protect them from insult, curiosity and publicity in any form.
2.	The transport of prisoners in conveyances with inadequate ventilation or light, or in any way which would subject them to unnecessary physical hardship, shall be prohibited.
3.	The transport of prisoners shall be carried out at the expense of the prison administration and equal conditions shall apply to all of them.

Institutional personnel
Rule 74
1.	The prison administration shall provide for the careful selection of every grade of the personnel, since it is on their integrity, humanity, professional capacity and personal suitability for the work that the proper administration of prisons depends.
2.	The prison administration shall constantly seek to awaken and maintain in the minds both of the personnel and of the public the conviction that this work is a social service of great importance, and to this end all appropriate means of informing the public should be used.
3.	To secure the foregoing ends, personnel shall be appointed on a full-time basis as professional prison staff and have civil service status with security of tenure subject only to good conduct, efficiency and physical fitness. Salaries shall be adequate to attract and retain suitable men and women; employment benefits and conditions of service shall be favourable in view of the exacting nature of the work.

Rule 75
1.	All prison staff shall possess an adequate standard of education and shall be given the ability and means to carry out their duties in a professional manner.
2.	Before entering on duty, all prison staff shall be provided with training tailored to their general and specific duties, which shall be reflective of contemporary evidence-based best practice in penal sciences. Only those candidates who successfully pass the theoretical and practical tests at the end of such training shall be allowed to enter the prison service.
3.	The prison administration shall ensure the continuous provision of in service training courses with a view to maintaining and improving the knowledge and professional capacity of its personnel, after entering on duty and during their career.

Rule 76
1.	Training referred to in paragraph 2 of rule 75 shall include, at a minimum, training on:
	(a)	Relevant national legislation, regulations and policies, as well as applicable international and regional instruments, the provisions of which must guide the work and interactions of prison staff with inmates;
	(b)	Rights and duties of prison staff in the exercise of their functions, including respecting the human dignity of all prisoners and the prohibition of certain conduct, in particular torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment;
	(c)	Security and safety, including the concept of dynamic security, the use of force and instruments of restraint, and the management of violent offenders, with due consideration of preventive and defusing techniques, such as negotiation and mediation;
	(d)	First aid, the psychosocial needs of prisoners and the corresponding dynamics in prison settings, as well as social care and assistance, including early detection of mental health issues.
2.	Prison staff who are in charge of working with certain categories of prisoners, or who are assigned other specialized functions, shall receive training that has a corresponding focus.

Rule 77
	All prison staff shall at all times so conduct themselves and perform their duties as to influence the prisoners for good by their example and to command their respect.

Rule 78
1.	So far as possible, prison staff shall include a sufficient number of specialists such as psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers, teachers and trade instructors.
2.	The services of social workers, teachers and trade instructors shall be secured on a permanent basis, without thereby excluding part-time or voluntary workers.

Rule 79
1.	The prison director should be adequately qualified for his or her task by character, administrative ability, suitable training and experience.
2.	The prison director shall devote his or her entire working time to official duties and shall not be appointed on a part-time basis. He or she shall reside on the premises of the prison or in its immediate vicinity.
3.	When two or more prisons are under the authority of one director, he or she shall visit each of them at frequent intervals. A responsible resident official shall be in charge of each of these prisons.

Rule 80
1.	The prison director, his or her deputy, and the majority of other prison staff shall be able to speak the language of the greatest number of prisoners, or a language understood by the greatest number of them.
2.	Whenever necessary, the services of a competent interpreter shall be used.

Rule 81
1.	In a prison for both men and women, the part of the prison set aside for women shall be under the authority of a responsible woman staff member who shall have the custody of the keys of all that part of the prison.
2.	No male staff member shall enter the part of the prison set aside for women unless accompanied by a woman staff member.
3.	Women prisoners shall be attended and supervised only by women staff members. This does not, however, preclude male staff members, particularly doctors and teachers, from carrying out their professional duties in prisons or parts of prisons set aside for women.

Rule 82
1.	Prison staff shall not, in their relations with the prisoners, use force except in self-defence or in cases of attempted escape, or active or passive physical resistance to an order based on law or regulations. Prison staff who have recourse to force must use no more than is strictly necessary and must report the incident immediately to the prison director.
2.	Prison staff shall be given special physical training to enable them to restrain aggressive prisoners.
3.	Except in special circumstances, prison staff performing duties which bring them into direct contact with prisoners should not be armed. Furthermore, prison staff should in no circumstances be provided with arms unless they have been trained in their use.

Internal and external inspections
Rule 83
1.	There shall be a twofold system for regular inspections of prisons and penal services:
	(a)	Internal or administrative inspections conducted by the central prison administration;
	(b)	External inspections conducted by a body independent of the prison administration, which may include competent international or regional bodies.
2.	In both cases, the objective of the inspections shall be to ensure that prisons are managed in accordance with existing laws, regulations, policies and procedures, with a view to bringing about the objectives of penal and corrections services, and that the rights of prisoners are protected.

Rule 84
1.	Inspectors shall have the authority:
	(a)	To access all information on the numbers of prisoners and places and locations of detention, as well as all information relevant to the treatment of prisoners, including their records and conditions of detention;
	(b)	To freely choose which prisons to visit, including by making unannounced visits at their own initiative, and which prisoners to interview;
	(c)	To conduct private and fully confidential interviews with prisoners and prison staff in the course of their visits;
	(d)	To make recommendations to the prison administration and other competent authorities.
2.	External inspection teams shall be composed of qualified and experienced inspectors appointed by a competent authority and shall encompass health-care professionals. Due regard shall be given to balanced gender representation.

Rule 85
1.	Every inspection shall be followed by a written report to be submitted to the competent authority. Due consideration shall be given to making the reports of external inspections publicly available, excluding any personal data on prisoners unless they have given their explicit consent.
2.	The prison administration or other competent authorities, as appropriate, shall indicate, within a reasonable time, whether they will implement the recommendations resulting from the external inspection.

II.	Rules applicable to special categories
A.	Prisoners under sentence

Guiding principles
Rule 86
	The guiding principles hereafter are intended to show the spirit in which penal institutions should be administered and the purposes at which they should aim, in accordance with the declaration made under preliminary observation 1 of these rules.

Rule 87
	Before the completion of the sentence, it is desirable that the necessary steps be taken to ensure for the prisoner a gradual return to life in society. This aim may be achieved, depending on the case, by a pre-release regime organized in the same prison or in another appropriate institution, or by release on trial under some kind of supervision which must not be entrusted to the police but should be combined with effective social aid.

Rule 88
1.	The treatment of prisoners should emphasize not their exclusion from the community but their continuing part in it. Community agencies should therefore be enlisted wherever possible to assist the prison staff in the task of social rehabilitation of the prisoners.
2.	There should be in connection with every prison social workers charged with the duty of maintaining and improving all desirable relations of a prisoner with his or her family and with valuable social agencies. Steps should be taken to safeguard, to the maximum extent compatible with the law and the sentence, the rights relating to civil interests, social security rights and other social benefits of prisoners.

Rule 89
1.	The fulfilment of these principles requires individualization of treatment and for this purpose a flexible system of classifying prisoners in groups. It is therefore desirable that such groups should be distributed in separate prisons suitable for the treatment of each group.
2.	These prisons do not need to provide the same degree of security for every group. It is desirable to provide varying degrees of security according to the needs of different groups. Open prisons, by the very fact that they provide no physical security against escape but rely on the self-discipline of the inmates, provide the conditions most favourable to the rehabilitation of carefully selected prisoners.
3.	It is desirable that the number of prisoners in closed prisons should not be so large that the individualization of treatment is hindered. In some countries it is considered that the population of such prisons should not exceed 500. In open prisons the population should be as small as possible.
4.	On the other hand, it is undesirable to maintain prisons which are so small that proper facilities cannot be provided.

Rule 90
	The duty of society does not end with a prisoner's release. There should, therefore, be governmental or private agencies capable of lending the released prisoner efficient aftercare directed towards the lessening of prejudice against him or her and towards his or her social rehabilitation.

Treatment
Rule 91
	The treatment of persons sentenced to imprisonment or a similar measure shall have as its purpose, so far as the length of the sentence permits, to establish in them the will to lead law-abiding and self-supporting lives after their release and to fit them to do so. The treatment shall be such as will encourage their self-respect and develop their sense of responsibility.

Rule 92
1.	To these ends, all appropriate means shall be used, including religious care in the countries where this is possible, education, vocational guidance and training, social casework, employment counselling, physical development and strengthening of moral character, in accordance with the individual needs of each prisoner, taking account of his or her social and criminal history, physical and mental capacities and aptitudes, personal temperament, the length of his or her sentence and prospects after release.
2.	For every prisoner with a sentence of suitable length, the prison director shall receive, as soon as possible after his or her admission, full reports on all the matters referred to in paragraph 1 of this rule. Such reports shall always include a report by the physician or other qualified health-care professionals on the physical and mental condition of the prisoner.
3.	The reports and other relevant documents shall be placed in an individual file. This file shall be kept up to date and classified in such a way that it can be consulted by the responsible personnel whenever the need arises.

Classification and individualization
Rule 93
1.	The purposes of classification shall be:
	(a)	To separate from others those prisoners who, by reason of their criminal records or characters, are likely to exercise a bad influence;
	(b)	To divide the prisoners into classes in order to facilitate their treatment with a view to their social rehabilitation.
2.	So far as possible, separate prisons or separate sections of a prison shall be used for the treatment of different classes of prisoners.

Rule 94
	As soon as possible after admission and after a study of the personality of each prisoner with a sentence of suitable length, a programme of treatment shall be prepared for him or her in the light of the knowledge obtained about his or her individual needs, capacities and dispositions.

Privileges
Rule 95
	Systems of privileges appropriate for the different classes of prisoners and the different methods of treatment shall be established at every prison, in order to encourage good conduct, develop a sense of responsibility and secure the interest and cooperation of prisoners in their treatment.

Work
Rule 96
1.	Sentenced prisoners shall have the opportunity to work and/or to actively participate in their rehabilitation, subject to a determination of physical and mental fitness by a physician or other qualified health-care professionals.
2.	Sufficient work of a useful nature shall be provided to keep prisoners actively employed for a normal working day.

Rule 97
1.	Prison labour must not be of an afflictive nature.
2.	Prisoners shall not be held in slavery or servitude.
3.	No prisoner shall be required to work for the personal or private benefit of any prison staff.

Rule 98
1.	So far as possible the work provided shall be such as will maintain or increase the prisoners' ability to earn an honest living after release.
2.	Vocational training in useful trades shall be provided for prisoners able to profit thereby and especially for young prisoners.
3.	Within the limits compatible with proper vocational selection and with the requirements of institutional administration and discipline, prisoners shall be able to choose the type of work they wish to perform.

Rule 99
1.	The organization and methods of work in prisons shall resemble as closely as possible those of similar work outside of prisons, so as to prepare prisoners for the conditions of normal occupational life.
2.	The interests of the prisoners and of their vocational training, however, must not be subordinated to the purpose of making a financial profit from an industry in the prison.

Rule 100
1.	Preferably, institutional industries and farms should be operated directly by the prison administration and not by private contractors.
2.	Where prisoners are employed in work not controlled by the prison administration, they shall always be under the supervision of prison staff. Unless the work is for other departments of the government, the full normal wages for such work shall be paid to the prison administration by the persons to whom the labour is supplied, account being taken of the output of the prisoners.

Rule 101
1.	The precautions laid down to protect the safety and health of free workers shall be equally observed in prisons.
2.	Provision shall be made to indemnify prisoners against industrial injury, including occupational disease, on terms not less favourable than those extended by law to free workers.

Rule 102
1.	The maximum daily and weekly working hours of the prisoners shall be fixed by law or by administrative regulation, taking into account local rules or custom in regard to the employment of free workers.
2.	The hours so fixed shall leave one rest day a week and sufficient time for education and other activities required as part of the treatment and rehabilitation of prisoners.

Rule 103
1.	There shall be a system of equitable remuneration of the work of prisoners.
2.	Under the system, prisoners shall be allowed to spend at least a part of their earnings on approved articles for their own use and to send a part of their earnings to their family.
3.	The system should also provide that a part of the earnings should be set aside by the prison administration so as to constitute a savings fund to be handed over to the prisoner on his or her release.

Education and recreation
Rule 104
1.	Provision shall be made for the further education of all prisoners capable of profiting thereby, including religious instruction in the countries where this is possible. The education of illiterate prisoners and of young prisoners shall be compulsory and special attention shall be paid to it by the prison administration.
2.	So far as practicable, the education of prisoners shall be integrated with the educational system of the country so that after their release they may continue their education without difficulty.

Rule 105
	Recreational and cultural activities shall be provided in all prisons for the benefit of the mental and physical health of prisoners.

Social relations and aftercare
Rule 106
	Special attention shall be paid to the maintenance and improvement of such relations between a prisoner and his or her family as are desirable in the best interests of both.

Rule 107
	From the beginning of a prisoner's sentence, consideration shall be given to his or her future after release and he or she shall be encouraged and provided assistance to maintain or establish such relations with persons or agencies outside the prison as may promote the prisoner's rehabilitation and the best interests of his or her family.

Rule 108
1.	Services and agencies, governmental or otherwise, which assist released prisoners in re-establishing themselves in society shall ensure, so far as is possible and necessary, that released prisoners are provided with appropriate documents and identification papers, have suitable homes and work to go to, are suitably and adequately clothed having regard to the climate and season and have sufficient means to reach their destination and maintain themselves in the period immediately following their release.
2.	The approved representatives of such agencies shall have all necessary access to the prison and to prisoners and shall be taken into consultation as to the future of a prisoner from the beginning of his or her sentence.
3.	It is desirable that the activities of such agencies shall be centralized or coordinated as far as possible in order to secure the best use of their efforts.

B.	Prisoners with mental disabilities and/or health conditions
Rule 109
1.	Persons who are found to be not criminally responsible, or who are later diagnosed with severe mental disabilities and/or health conditions, for whom staying in prison would mean an exacerbation of their condition, shall not be detained in prisons, and arrangements shall be made to transfer them to mental health facilities as soon as possible.
2.	If necessary, other prisoners with mental disabilities and/or health conditions can be observed and treated in specialized facilities under the supervision of qualified health-care professionals.
3.	The health-care service shall provide for the psychiatric treatment of all other prisoners who are in need of such treatment.

Rule 110
	It is desirable that steps should be taken, by arrangement with the appropriate agencies, to ensure if necessary the continuation of psychiatric treatment after release and the provision of social-psychiatric aftercare.

C.	Prisoners under arrest or awaiting trial
Rule 111
1.	Persons arrested or imprisoned by reason of a criminal charge against them, who are detained either in police custody or in prison custody (jail) but have not yet been tried and sentenced, will be referred to as "untried prisoners" hereinafter in these rules.
2.	Unconvicted prisoners are presumed to be innocent and shall be treated as such.
3.	Without prejudice to legal rules for the protection of individual liberty or prescribing the procedure to be observed in respect of untried prisoners, these prisoners shall benefit from a special regime which is described in the following rules in its essential requirements only.

Rule 112
1.	Untried prisoners shall be kept separate from convicted prisoners.
2.	Young untried prisoners shall be kept separate from adults and shall in principle be detained in separate institutions.

Rule 113
	Untried prisoners shall sleep singly in separate rooms, with the reservation of different local custom in respect of the climate.

Rule 114
	Within the limits compatible with the good order of the institution, untried prisoners may, if they so desire, have their food procured at their own expense from the outside, either through the administration or through their family or friends. Otherwise, the administration shall provide their food.

Rule 115
	An untried prisoner shall be allowed to wear his or her own clothing if it is clean and suitable. If he or she wears prison dress, it shall be different from that supplied to convicted prisoners.

Rule 116
	An untried prisoner shall always be offered the opportunity to work, but shall not be required to work. If he or she chooses to work, he or she shall be paid for it.

Rule 117
	An untried prisoner shall be allowed to procure at his or her own expense or at the expense of a third party such books, newspapers, writing material and other means of occupation as are compatible with the interests of the administration of justice and the security and good order of the institution.

Rule 118
	An untried prisoner shall be allowed to be visited and treated by his or her own doctor or dentist if there are reasonable grounds for the application and he or she is able to pay any expenses incurred.

Rule 119
1.	Every untried prisoner has the right to be promptly informed about the reasons for his or her detention and about any charges against him or her.
2.	If an untried prisoner does not have a legal adviser of his or her own choice, he or she shall be entitled to have a legal adviser assigned to him or her by a judicial or other authority in all cases where the interests of justice so require and without payment by the untried prisoner if he or she does not have sufficient means to pay. Denial of access to a legal adviser shall be subject to independent review without delay.

Rule 120

1.	The entitlements and modalities governing the access of an untried prisoner to his or her legal adviser or legal aid provider for the purpose of his or her defence shall be governed by the same principles as outlined in rule 61.
2.	An untried prisoner shall, upon request, be provided with writing material for the preparation of documents related to his or her defence, including confidential instructions for his or her legal adviser or legal aid provider.

D.	Civil prisoners
Rule 121
	In countries where the law permits imprisonment for debt, or by order of a court under any other non-criminal process, persons so imprisoned shall not be subjected to any greater restriction or severity than is necessary to ensure safe custody and good order. Their treatment shall be not less favourable than that of untried prisoners, with the reservation, however, that they may possibly be required to work.

E.	Persons arrested or detained without charge
Rule 122
	Without prejudice to the provisions of article 9 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,29 persons arrested or imprisoned without charge shall be accorded the same protection as that accorded under part I and part II, section C, of these rules. Relevant provisions of part II, section A, of these rules shall likewise be applicable where their application may be conducive to the benefit of this special group of persons in custody, provided that no measures shall be taken implying that re-education or rehabilitation is in any way appropriate to persons not convicted of any criminal offence.

1 Resolution 217 A (III).
2 Human Rights: A Compilation of International Instruments, Volume I (First Part), Universal Instruments (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.XIV.4 (Vol. I, Part 1)), sect. J, No. 34. 
3 Resolution 65/230, annex. 
4 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex. 
5 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1465, No. 24841. 
6 Ibid., vol. 2375, No. 24841. 
7 Economic and Social Council resolution 1984/47, annex. 
8 Resolution 43/173, annex.
9 Resolution 45/111, annex.
10 Resolution 45/110, annex. 
11 Economic and Social Council resolution 2002/12, annex. 
12 Resolution 40/33, annex. 
13 Resolution 45/112, annex. 
14 Resolution 45/113, annex. 
15 Resolution 65/229, annex. 
16 Resolution 34/169, annex. 
17 Resolution 37/194, annex. 
18 Eighth United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders, Havana, 27 August-7 September 1990: report prepared by the Secretariat (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.91.IV.2), chap. I, sect. B.2, annex. 
19 Resolution 55/89, annex. 
20 Resolution 67/187, annex. 
21 Economic and Social Council resolution 1997/36, annex.
22 Economic and Social Council resolution 1999/27, annex.
23 Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 40 (A/47/40), annex VI.B. 
24 See E/CN.15/2015/17. 
25 UNODC/CCPCJ/EG.6/2015/2. 
26 Resolution 70/174, annex. 
27 See resolution 64/13. 
28 See rule 67 of the United Nations Rules for the Protection of Juveniles Deprived of their Liberty (resolution 45/113, annex); and rule 22 of the United Nations Rules for the Treatment of Women Prisoners and Non-custodial Measures for Women Offenders (the Bangkok Rules) (resolution 65/229, annex). 
29 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1544341E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/70/175<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/70/175General AssemblyDistr.: General
8 January 2016Seventieth session
Agenda item 106

15-16929 (E)
*1516929*Please recycle 

A/RES/70/175United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the
Treatment of Prisoners (the Nelson Mandela Rules)

United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the
Treatment of Prisoners (the Nelson Mandela Rules)A/RES/70/175

32/33

33/33

