[Start1]

Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 19 December 2016
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/71/484/Add.2)]
71/194.	Enhancement of international cooperation in the field of human rights


	The General Assembly,
	Reaffirming its commitment to promoting international cooperation, as set forth in the Charter of the United Nations, in particular Article 1, paragraph 3, as well as relevant provisions of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993,1 for enhancing genuine cooperation among Member States in the field of human rights,
	Recalling its resolution 70/1 of 25 September 2015, entitled "Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development", in which the General Assembly adopted a comprehensive, far-reaching and people-centred set of universal and transformative Sustainable Development Goals,
	Recalling also its adoption of the United Nations Millennium Declaration on 8 September 2000,2 its resolution 70/153 of 17 December 2015, Human Rights Council resolution 32/6 of 30 June 20163 and the resolutions of the Commission on Human Rights on the enhancement of international cooperation in the field of human rights,
	Recalling further the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, held in Durban, South Africa, from 31 August to 8 September 2001, the Durban Review Conference, held in Geneva from 20 to 24 April 2009, and the political declaration of the high-level meeting of the General Assembly to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action,4 and their role in the enhancement of international cooperation in the field of human rights,
	Recognizing that the enhancement of international cooperation in the field of human rights is essential for the full achievement of the purposes of the United Nations, including the effective promotion and protection of all human rights,
	Recognizing also that the promotion and protection of human rights should be based on the principle of cooperation and genuine dialogue and aimed at strengthening the capacity of Member States to comply with their human rights obligations for the benefit of all human beings,
	Underlining that cooperation is not just a matter of relations of good-neighbourliness, coexistence or reciprocity, but rather of a willingness to look beyond mutual interests in order to advance the general interest,
	Stressing the importance of international cooperation for improving the living conditions of all in every country, including, in particular, in developing countries,
	Reaffirming that dialogue among religions, cultures and civilizations in the field of human rights could contribute greatly to the enhancement of international cooperation in this field,
	Emphasizing the need for further progress in the promotion and encouragement of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms through, inter alia, international cooperation,
	Underlining the fact that mutual understanding, dialogue, cooperation, transparency and confidence-building are important elements in all activities for the promotion and protection of human rights,
	Recalling the adoption of resolution 2000/22 of 18 August 2000, on the promotion of dialogue on human rights issues, by the Subcommission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights at its fifty-second session,5
	1.	Reaffirms that it is one of the purposes of the United Nations and the responsibility of all Member States to promote, protect and encourage respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms through, inter alia, international cooperation;
	2.	Recognizes that, in addition to their separate responsibilities to their individual societies, States have a collective responsibility to uphold the principles of human dignity, equality and equity at the global level;
	3.	Reaffirms that dialogue among cultures and civilizations facilitates the promotion of a culture of tolerance and respect for diversity, and welcomes in this regard the holding of conferences and meetings at the national, regional and international levels on dialogue among civilizations;
	4.	Urges all actors on the international scene to build an international order based on inclusion, justice, equality and equity, human dignity, mutual understanding and promotion of and respect for cultural diversity and universal human rights and to reject all doctrines of exclusion based on racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance;
	5.	Reaffirms the importance of the enhancement of international cooperation for the promotion and protection of human rights and for the achievement of the objectives of the fight against racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance;
	6.	Considers that international cooperation in the field of human rights, in conformity with the purposes and principles set out in the Charter of the United Nations and international law, should make an effective and practical contribution to the urgent task of preventing violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms;
	7.	Reaffirms that the promotion, protection and full realization of all human rights and fundamental freedoms should be guided by the principles of universality, non-selectivity, cooperation and genuine dialogue, objectivity and transparency, in a manner consistent with the purposes and principles set out in the Charter;
	8.	Emphasizes the importance of the universal periodic review as a mechanism based on cooperation and constructive dialogue with the objective of, inter alia, improving the situation of human rights on the ground and promoting the fulfilment of the human rights obligations and commitments undertaken by States;
	9.	Also emphasizes the need for a cooperative approach on the part of all stakeholders to resolving human rights issues in international forums;
	10.	Further emphasizes the role of international cooperation in support of national efforts and in increasing the capacities of Member States in the field of human rights through, inter alia, the enhancement of their cooperation with human rights mechanisms, including through the provision of technical assistance, upon the request of and in accordance with the priorities set by the States concerned;
	11.	Calls upon Member States, the specialized agencies and intergovernmental organizations to continue to carry out a constructive dialogue and consultations for the enhancement of understanding and the promotion and protection of all human rights and fundamental freedoms, and encourages non-governmental organizations to contribute actively to this endeavour;
	12.	Urges States to take measures necessary to enhance bilateral, regional and international cooperation aimed at addressing the adverse impact of consecutive and compounded global crises, such as financial and economic crises, food crises, climate change and natural disasters, on the full enjoyment of human rights;
	13.	Invites States and relevant United Nations human rights mechanisms and procedures to continue to pay attention to the importance of mutual cooperation, understanding and dialogue in ensuring the promotion and protection of all human rights;
	14.	Requests the Secretary-General, in collaboration with the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, to consult States and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations on ways and means, as well as on obstacles and challenges and possible proposals to overcome them, for the enhancement of international cooperation and genuine dialogue in the United Nations human rights machinery, including the Human Rights Council;
	15.	Decides to continue its consideration of the question at its seventy-second session.

65th plenary meeting
19 December 2016

1 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III. 
2 Resolution 55/2.
3 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Seventy-first Session, Supplement No. 53 (A/71/53), chap. V, sect. A.
4 Resolution 66/3. 
5 See E/CN.4/2001/2-E/CN.4/Sub.2/2000/46, chap. II, sect. A.
[Start1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1645497E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/71/194<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/71/194General AssemblyDistr.: General
20 January 2017Seventy-first session
Agenda item 68 (b)

16-22566 (E)
*1622566*Please recycle 

A/RES/71/194Enhancement of international cooperation in the field of human rights

Enhancement of international cooperation in the field of human rightsA/RES/71/194

2/2

3/3

