[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/57/548)]
57/174.	International cooperation against the world drug problem


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 52/92 of 12 December 1997, 53/115 of 9 December 1998, 54/132 of 17 December 1999, 55/65 of 4 December 2000 and 56/124 of 19 December 2001,
	Recalling also the United Nations Millennium Declaration,1 in which the world leaders resolved to redouble efforts to counter the world drug problem,
	Reaffirming its commitment to the outcome of the twentieth special session of the General Assembly, devoted to countering the world drug problem together, held in New York from 8 to 10 June 1998, and welcoming the continuing determination of Governments to overcome the world drug problem by a full and balanced application of national, regional and international strategies to reduce the demand for, production of and trafficking in illicit drugs, as reflected in the Political Declaration,2 the Action Plan3 for the Implementation of the Declaration on the Guiding Principles of Drug Demand Reduction4 and the measures to enhance international cooperation to counter the world drug problem,5
	Gravely concerned that the drug problem, despite increasing efforts by States, relevant international organizations, civil society and non-governmental organizations, is still a challenge of global dimensions which constitutes a serious threat to the health, safety and well-being of all humankind, in particular young people,
	Gravely concerned also that the demand for, production of and trafficking in illicit drugs and psychotropic substances undermines development, including efforts to reduce poverty, entails an increasing economic cost for Governments and continues to threaten seriously socio-economic and political systems, democratic institutions and the stability, national security and sovereignty of States, especially those involved in conflicts and wars, and that trafficking in drugs makes conflict resolution more difficult,
	Deeply alarmed by the violence and economic power of criminal organizations and terrorist groups engaged in drug trafficking and other criminal activities, such as money-laundering and illicit traffic in arms, precursors and essential chemicals, and by the increasing transnational links between them, and recognizing the urgent need for enhanced international cooperation and implementation of effective strategies on the basis of the outcome of the twentieth special session of the General Assembly, which are essential to achieving results against all forms of transnational criminal activities,
	Noting with grave concern the rapid and widespread increase, and the involvement of minors, in the illicit production of, trafficking in and consumption of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, including amphetamine-type stimulants and other sorts of synthetic drugs, as well as in the number of children and young people starting to use drugs at an earlier age and having access to substances not previously used,
	Reaffirming the importance of the commitments of Member States in meeting the objectives targeted for 2003 and 2008, as set out in the Political Declaration adopted by the General Assembly at the twentieth special session, and welcoming the guidelines and elements recommended by the Commission on Narcotic Drugs to the Executive Director of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme for the preparation of subsequent reports on the follow-up to the twentieth special session,6
	Welcoming the adoption on 15 March 2002 of Commission on Narcotic Drugs resolution 45/7 on the preparations for the ministerial-level segment of its forty-sixth session,7 with the main theme of the assessment of the progress achieved and the difficulties encountered in meeting the goals and targets set out in the Political Declaration adopted by the General Assembly at its twentieth special session,
	Emphasizing the importance of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Declaration on the Guiding Principles of Drug Demand Reduction, which introduces a new global approach balanced between illicit supply and demand reduction, under the principle of shared responsibility, and of the Action Plan on International Cooperation on the Eradication of Illicit Drug Crops and on Alternative Development,8 which recognizes the importance of supply reduction as an integral part of a balanced drug control strategy,
	Recognizing the efforts of all countries, in particular those that produce narcotic drugs for scientific and medical purposes, and of the International Narcotics Control Board in preventing the diversion of such substances to illicit markets and in maintaining production at a level consistent with licit demand, in line with the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of l9619 and the Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1971,10
	Recognizing also that the illicit production of and trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances is often related to the economic development level of countries and that appropriate measures are required, based on the principle of shared responsibility and strengthened international cooperation, in support of alternative and sustainable development activities in the affected areas of those countries, which have as their objectives the reduction and elimination of illicit drug production,
	Expressing its concern that lenient policies towards the use of illicit drugs that are not in accordance with the international drug control treaties may hamper the efforts of the international community to address the world drug problem, and recalling in this context the importance of complying with relevant international obligations,11
	Welcoming the Declaration of Commitment on HIV/AIDS, adopted on 27 June 2001 at the special session of the General Assembly on HIV/AIDS,12 including the acknowledgement of the link between drug-using behaviour and HIV infection, as well as Commission on Narcotic Drugs resolution 45/1 of 15 March 2002 on HIV/AIDS in the context of drug abuse,7
	Stressing that respect for all human rights is and must be an essential component of measures taken to address the drug problem,
	Ensuring that women and men benefit equally, and without any discrimination, from strategies directed against the world drug problem, through their involvement in all stages of programmes and policy-making,
	Recognizing that the use of new technologies and electronic media, including the Internet, poses new opportunities for and challenges to international cooperation in countering drug abuse and illicit production and trafficking,
	Convinced that civil society, including non-governmental organizations and community-based organizations, plays an active role and makes an effective contribution to countering the world drug problem, and should be encouraged to continue to do so,
	Acknowledging that international cooperation in countering drug abuse and illicit production and trafficking has shown that positive results can be achieved through sustained and collective efforts,

I
Respect for the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations
and international law in countering the world drug problem

	1.	Reaffirms that countering the world drug problem is a common and shared responsibility that must be addressed in a multilateral setting, requires an integrated and balanced approach, and must be carried out in full conformity with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and international law, and in particular with full respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States, the principle of non-intervention in the internal affairs of States and all human rights and fundamental freedoms;
	2.	Calls upon all States to take further action to promote effective cooperation at the international and regional levels in the efforts to counter the world drug problem, on the basis of the principles of equal rights and mutual respect;
	3.	Urges all States to ratify or accede to and implement all the provisions of the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961 as amended by the 1972 Protocol,13 the Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 197110 and the United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of l988;14

II
International cooperation to counter the world drug problem

	1.	Urges competent authorities, at the international, regional and national levels, to implement the outcome of the twentieth special session, within the agreed time frames, in particular the high-priority practical measures at the international, regional or national level, as indicated in the Political Declaration and related documents;15
	2.	Urges all Member States to implement the Action Plan3 for the Implementation of the Declaration on the Guiding Principles of Drug Demand Reduction4 and to strengthen their national efforts to counter the abuse of illicit drugs among their population, in particular among children and young people;
	3.	Recognizes the role of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme in developing action-oriented strategies to assist Member States to implement the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Declaration, and requests the Executive Director of the Programme to report to the Commission on Narcotic Drugs at its forty-sixth session on the follow-up to the Action Plan;
	4.	Reaffirms its resolve to continue to strengthen the United Nations machinery for international drug control, in particular the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, the United Nations International Drug Control Programme and the International Narcotics Control Board, in order to enable them to fulfil their mandates, bearing in mind the recommendations contained in Economic and Social Council resolution 1999/30 of 28 July 1999 and the measures taken and recommendations adopted by the Commission on Narcotic Drugs at its forty-fourth and forty-fifth sessions aimed at the enhancement of its functioning, in particular in its resolutions 44/16 of 29 March 200116 and 45/17 of 15 March 2002;7
	5.	Calls upon all States to adopt effective measures, including national laws and regulations, within the agreed time frame, to strengthen national judicial systems and to carry out effective drug control activities in cooperation with other States and in accordance with United Nations drug control conventions;
	6.	Calls upon the relevant United Nations bodies, the specialized agencies, the international financial institutions and other concerned intergovernmental and international organizations, within their mandates, as well as all actors of civil society, notably non-governmental organizations, community-based organizations, sports associations, the media and the private sector, to continue their close cooperation with Governments in promoting and implementing the outcome of the twentieth special session through public information campaigns, in particular with regard to efforts for drug demand reduction;
	7.	Urges Governments, the relevant United Nations bodies, the specialized agencies and other international organizations to assist and support States, upon request, in particular developing countries, with the aim of enhancing their capacity to counter illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, taking into account national plans and initiatives;
	8.	Calls upon all States to adopt and implement measures to prevent the diversion of chemicals to illicit drug manufacture, in cooperation with competent international and regional bodies and, if necessary and to the extent possible, with the private sector in each State, in accordance with the goals and targets for 2003 and 2008 set out in the Political Declaration and the resolution on the control of precursors adopted at the special session;17
	9.	Calls upon States, the international community, international and regional organizations, international financial institutions and regional development banks to support the implementation of the Action Plan on International Cooperation on the Eradication of Illicit Drug Crops and on Alternative Development8 by States affected by illicit crop cultivation, and the implementation of Commission on Narcotic Drugs resolution 45/14 of 15 March 2002 on the role of alternative development in drug control and development cooperation;7
	10.	Calls upon States in which cultivation and production of illicit drug crops occur to establish or reinforce, where appropriate, national mechanisms to monitor and verify illicit crops;
	11.	Recommends that Member States, in particular donor States and States in which sustainable alternative development programmes are being implemented, respect the balance and ensure the effective coordination of law enforcement and interdiction measures, eradication efforts and alternative development to achieve the goal of eliminating or reducing significantly the illicit cultivation of drug crops;
	12.	Urges States to open their markets to products that are the object of alternative development programmes and that are necessary for the creation of employment and the eradication of poverty;
	13.	Encourages States to cooperate through bilateral, regional and multilateral means to prevent illicit crop cultivation from emerging in, or from being relocated to, other areas, regions or countries;
	14.	Urges all States, bearing in mind the forthcoming quinquennial evaluation of the implementation of the outcome of the twentieth special session in 2003, to submit their replies to the questionnaires of the biennial reports to the Commission on Narcotic Drugs on their efforts to meet the goals and targets for 2003 and 2008, as set out in the Political Declaration adopted at the special session, in accordance with the terms established in the guidelines adopted by the Commission at its forty-second and forty-fourth sessions;
	15.	Urges Member States and Observers to ensure that they are represented at the appropriate level at the ministerial-level segment of the forty-sixth session of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs and to participate actively in that segment;
	16.	Encourages the Commission on Narcotic Drugs and the International Narcotics Control Board to continue their useful work on the control of precursors and other chemicals used in the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances;
	17.	Calls upon the Commission on Narcotic Drugs to continue mainstreaming a gender perspective into all its policies, programmes and activities, and requests the Secretariat to continue integrating a gender perspective into all documentation prepared for the Commission;
	18.	Urges all States to assign priority to the development and implementation of policies and programmes to raise awareness among children and young people, through, inter alia, information and education programmes, of the risks deriving from the use of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, including synthetic drugs, as well as from the use of tobacco and alcohol, with the aim of preventing their use and reducing the adverse consequences of their abuse;
	19.	Also urges all States to make appropriate treatment and rehabilitation accessible to children, including adolescents, dependent on narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, inhalants and alcohol;
	20.	Further urges all States to adopt measures, including, where appropriate, possible national legislative measures, to address the linkages between the illicit traffic in small arms and light weapons and the illicit trade in narcotic drugs, among other related crimes, through increased international cooperation and by ensuring full implementation of the Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects;18
	21.	Welcomes the adoption of the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime19 and the three Protocols thereto, namely, the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children,20 the Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land, Sea and Air21 and the Protocol against the Illicit Manufacturing of and Trafficking in Firearms, Their Parts and Components and Ammunition,22 and encourages universal signature and ratification of these legal instruments;
	22.	Stresses the need for coordinated action to reduce the demand for illicit drugs, in the context of a comprehensive, balanced and coordinated approach encompassing supply control and demand reduction, as set out in the Action Plan for

the Implementation of the Declaration on the Guiding Principles of Drug Demand Reduction, noting, inter alia, the links among drug trafficking, organized crime and terrorism;
	23.	Recognizes the need to provide support to the States that are most affected by the transit of drugs, in accordance with Economic and Social Council resolution 2002/21 of 24 July 2002, in which the Council requested the United Nations International Drug Control Programme to continue to provide technical assistance, from available voluntary contributions for that purpose, to those States identified by relevant international bodies as the most affected by the transit of drugs, in particular developing countries in need of such assistance and support;

III
Action by the United Nations system

	1.	Emphasizes the role of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs as the principal United Nations policy-making body on drug control issues and as the governing body of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme;
	2.	Welcomes Commission on Narcotic Drugs resolution 45/17,7 which provides for an intersessional meeting of the Commission, if and when services are available at no additional cost to the Organization, to examine issues arising from the governing role of the Commission in the budgetary process of the Programme;
	3.	Reaffirms the role of the Executive Director of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme in coordinating and providing effective leadership for all United Nations drug control activities so as to increase cost-effectiveness and ensure coherence of action, complementarity and non-duplication of such activities throughout the United Nations system, and encourages further efforts in this regard;
	4.	Emphasizes that the multidimensional nature of the world drug problem calls for the promotion of integration and coordination of drug control activities throughout the United Nations system, including in the follow-up to major United Nations conferences;
	5.	Urges the relevant specialized agencies, programmes and funds, including humanitarian organizations, and invites multilateral financial institutions, to include action against the world drug problem in their programming and planning processes in order to ensure that the integral and balanced strategy that emerged from the special session devoted to countering the world drug problem together is being addressed, taking into account the priorities of States;

IV
United Nations International Drug Control Programme

	1.	Welcomes the efforts of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme to implement its mandate within the framework of the international drug control treaties, the Comprehensive Multidisciplinary Outline of Future Activities in Drug Abuse Control,23 the Global Programme of Action,24 the outcome of the special session of the General Assembly devoted to countering the world drug problem together and relevant consensus documents;
	2.	Expresses its appreciation to the Programme for the support provided to different States in meeting the objectives of the Global Programme of Action and of the special session, especially in cases where significant and anticipated progress was achieved regarding the goals and targets for 2003 and 2008;
	3.	Requests the Programme to continue:
	(a)	To strengthen dialogue with Member States and also to ensure continued improvement in management, so as to contribute to enhanced and sustainable programme delivery and further encourage the Executive Director to maximize the effectiveness of the Programme, inter alia, through the full implementation of Commission on Narcotic Drugs resolutions 44/1616 and 45/17,7 in particular the recommendations contained therein;
	(b)	To strengthen cooperation with Member States and with United Nations programmes, funds and relevant agencies, as well as relevant regional organizations and agencies and non-governmental organizations, and to provide, on request, assistance in implementing the outcome of the special session;
	(c)	To increase its assistance, within the available voluntary resources, to countries that are deploying efforts to reduce illicit crop cultivation by, in particular, adopting alternative development programmes, and to explore new and innovative funding mechanisms;
	(d)	To allocate, while keeping the balance between supply and demand reduction programmes, adequate resources to allow it to fulfil its role in the implementation of the Action Plan3 for the Implementation of the Declaration on the Guiding Principles of Drug Demand Reduction;4
	(e)	To strengthen dialogue and cooperation with multilateral development banks and with international financial institutions so that they may undertake lending and programming activities related to drug control in interested and affected countries to implement the outcome of the special session, and to keep the Commission on Narcotic Drugs informed of further progress made in this area;
	(f)	To take into account the outcome of the special session, to include in its report on the illicit traffic in drugs an updated, objective and comprehensive assessment of worldwide trends in illicit traffic and transit in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, including methods and routes used, and to recommend ways and means of improving the capacity of States along those routes to address all aspects of the drug problem;
	(g)	To publish the World Drug Report, with comprehensive and balanced information about the world drug problem, and to seek additional extrabudgetary resources for its publication in all the official languages;
	4.	Urges all Governments to provide the fullest possible financial and political support to the Programme by widening its donor base and increasing voluntary contributions, in particular general-purpose contributions, to enable it to continue, expand and strengthen its operational and technical cooperation activities;
	5.	Calls upon the International Narcotics Control Board to increase efforts to implement all its mandates under international drug control conventions and to continue to cooperate with Governments, inter alia, by offering advice to Member States that request it;
	6.	Notes that the Board needs sufficient resources to carry out all its mandates, and therefore urges Member States to commit themselves in a common effort to assigning adequate and sufficient budgetary resources to the Board, in accordance with Economic and Social Council resolution 1996/20 of 23 July 1996, and emphasizes the need to maintain its capacity, inter alia, through the provision of appropriate means by the Secretary-General and adequate technical support by the Programme;
	7.	Stresses the importance of the meetings of Heads of National Drug Law Enforcement Agencies, in all regions of the world, and the Subcommission on Illicit Drug Traffic and Related Matters in the Near and Middle East of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, and encourages them to continue to contribute to the strengthening of regional and international cooperation, taking into account the outcome of the special session;
	8.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General,25 and, taking into account the promotion of integrated reporting, requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session a report on the quinquennial evaluation of the implementation of the outcome of the twentieth special session, including on the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Declaration on the Guiding Principles of Drug Demand Reduction, based on the report of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs on its forty-sixth session and the present resolution.

77th plenary meeting
18 December 2002
1 See resolution 55/2.
2 Resolution S-20/2, annex.
3 Resolution 54/132, annex.
4 Resolution S-20/3, annex.
5 Resolutions S-20/4 A-E.
6 Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1999, Supplement No. 8 (E/1999/28/Rev.1), part two, chap. I, resolution 42/11, annex; and ibid., 2001, Supplement No. 8 (E/2001/28/Rev.1), chap. I, sect. C, resolution 44/2.
7 Ibid., 2002, Supplement No. 8 and corrigenda (E/2002/28 and Corr.1 and 2), chap. I, sect. C.
8 Resolution S-20/4 E.
9 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 520, No. 7515.
10 Ibid., vol. 1019, No. 14956.
11 The Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961 as amended by the 1972 Protocol (United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 976, No. 14152), the Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1971 (United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1019, No. 14956) and the United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of 1988 (see Official Records of the United Nations Conference for the Adoption of a Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, Vienna, 25 November-20 December 1988, vol. I (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.94.XI.5)).
12 Resolution S-26/2, annex.
13 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 976, No. 14152.
14 See Official Records of the United Nations Conference for the Adoption of a Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, Vienna, 25 November-20 December 1988, vol. I (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.94.XI.5).
15 See resolution S-20/2, annex, as well as the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Declaration on the Guiding Principles of Drug Demand Reduction (resolution 54/132, annex), the measures to enhance international cooperation to counter the world drug problem, namely, the Action Plan against Illicit Manufacture, Trafficking and Abuse of Amphetamine-type Stimulants and Their Precursors (resolution S-20/4 A), the measures to prevent the illicit manufacture, import, export, trafficking, distribution and diversion of precursors used in the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances (see resolution S-20/4 B), the measures to promote judicial cooperation (resolution S-20/4 C), the measures to counter money-laundering (resolution S-20/4 D) and the Action Plan on International Cooperation on the Eradication of Illicit Drug Crops and on Alternative Development (resolution S-20/4 E).
16 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2001, Supplement No. 8 (E/2001/28/Rev.1), chap. I, sect. C.
17 Resolution S-20/4 B.
18 See Report of the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All its Aspects, New York, 9-20 July 2001 (A/CONF.192/15), chap. IV, para. 24.
19 Resolution 55/25, annex I.
20 Ibid., annex II.
21 Ibid., annex III.
22 Resolution 55/255, annex.
23 See Report of the International Conference on Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, Vienna, 17-26 June 1987 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.87.I.18), chap. I, sect. A.
24 See resolution S-17/2, annex.
25  A/57/127.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0254966E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/57/174<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

2
    

3

United NationsA/RES/57/174General AssemblyDistr.: General
28 January 2003Fifty-seventh session
Agenda item 101

02 54966

A/RES/57/174

A/RES/57/174

2

3

