[COMMENT1]
UNITED									A
NATIONS



             General Assembly


                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/54/176
                                                                          15 February 2000





Fifty-fourth session
Agenda item 116 (b)


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/54/605/Add.2)]


54/176.	National institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights


    The General Assembly,

    Recalling the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and the Commission on Human Rights concerning national institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights,

    Welcoming the rapidly growing interest throughout the world in the creation and strengthening of independent, pluralistic national institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights,

    Convinced of the important role national institutions play and will continue to play in promoting and protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms and in developing and enhancing public awareness of those rights and freedoms,

    Recognizing that the United Nations has played an important role and should continue to play a more important role in assisting the development of national institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights,


    Recalling the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993,1 which reaffirmed the important and constructive role played by national human rights institutions, in particular in their advisory capacity to the competent authorities and their role in remedying human rights violations, in disseminating information on human rights and in education in human rights, 

    Recalling also the Platform for Action adopted by the Fourth World Conference on Women,2 in which Governments were urged to create or strengthen independent national institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights, including the human rights of women,

    Noting the diverse approaches adopted throughout the world for the protection and promotion of human rights at the national level, emphasizing the universality, indivisibility and interdependence of all human rights, and emphasizing and recognizing the value of such approaches in promoting universal respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms,

    Noting with satisfaction the constructive participation of representatives of national institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights in, and their positive contribution to, the deliberations of the World Conference on Human Rights and the Commission on Human Rights, as well as international seminars and workshops on human rights organized or sponsored by the United Nations,

    Welcoming the strengthening of regional cooperation among national human rights institutions, including through the third annual meeting of the Asia-Pacific Forum of National Human Rights Institutions, held at Jakarta in September 1998, the second Regional Conference of African National Institutions for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights, held at Durban, South Africa, in June and July 1998, the first meeting of Mediterranean National Institutions for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights, held at Marrakesh, Morocco, in April 1998, the fourth annual meeting of the Asia-Pacific Forum of National Human Rights Institutions, held at Manila in September 1999, and the second session of the Coordinating Committee of African National Institutions for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights, held at Algiers in October 1999, 

    1.	Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General;3

    2.	Reaffirms the importance of the development of effective, independent and pluralistic national institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights, in keeping with the principles relating to the status of national institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights contained in the annex to General Assembly resolution 48/134 of 20 December 1993;

    3.	Recognizes that, in accordance with the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action,1 it is the right of each State to choose the framework for the national institutions that is best suited to its particular needs at the national level in order to promote human rights in accordance with international human rights standards;


    4.	Encourages Member States to establish or, where they already exist, to strengthen national institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights, as outlined in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action;

    5.	Welcomes the growing number of States establishing or considering the establishment of national institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights;

    6.	Encourages national institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights established by Member States to continue to play an active role in preventing and combating all violations of human rights as enumerated in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action and relevant international instruments;

    7.	Reaffirms the role of national institutions, where they exist, as appropriate agencies, inter alia, for the dissemination of human rights materials and other public information activities, including those of the United Nations, and in this context expresses its appreciation of the active role that national institutions have played in the celebrations marking the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights4 at the national and local levels; 

    8.	Urges the Secretary-General to continue to give high priority to requests from Member States for assistance in the establishment and strengthening of national human rights institutions as part of the programme of advisory services and technical assistance in the field of human rights;

    9.	Commends the high priority given by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to work on national human rights institutions, and in view of the expanded activities related to national institutions, encourages the High Commissioner to ensure that appropriate arrangements are made and budgetary resources provided to continue and further extend activities in support of national institutions, and invites Governments to contribute additional, earmarked funds to the United Nations Voluntary Fund for Technical Cooperation in the Field of Human Rights for that purpose;

    10.	Notes with appreciation the increasingly active and important role of the International Coordinating Committee of National Institutions, as recognized in Commission on Human Rights resolution 1994/54 of 4 March 1994,5 in close cooperation with the Office of the High Commissioner, in assisting Governments and national institutions, when requested, to follow up on relevant resolutions and recommendations concerning the strengthening of national institutions;

    11.	Also notes with appreciation the holding of regular meetings of the International Coordinating Committee of National Institutions and the arrangements for the participation of national human rights institutions in the annual sessions of the Commission on Human Rights;

    12.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue to provide the necessary assistance for holding meetings of the International Coordinating Committee of National Institutions during the sessions of the Commission on Human Rights, in cooperation with the Office of the High Commissioner;
    
    13.	Also requests the Secretary-General to continue to provide, including from the United Nations Voluntary Fund for Technical Cooperation in the Field of Human Rights, the necessary assistance for regional meetings of national institutions;

    14.	Recognizes the important and constructive role that non-governmental organizations may play, in cooperation with national institutions, for the better promotion and protection of human rights; 

    15.	Encourages all Member States to take appropriate steps to promote the exchange of information and experience concerning the establishment and effective operation of  national institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights;

    16.	Encourages all United Nations entities, funds and agencies to work in close cooperation with national institutions in the promotion and protection of human rights;

    17.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session on the implementation of the present resolution.


	83rd plenary meeting
	17 December 1999

1 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
2 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
3 A/54/336.
4 Resolution 217 A (III).
5 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1994, Supplement No. 4 and corrigendum (E/1994/24 and Corr.1), chap. II, sect. A.
[COMMENT1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0027917E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/54/176<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------


00 27917	/...


00 27917	/...

A/RES/54/176
Page 




	A/RES/54/176
	Page 





	/...


	/...





