[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 10 December 2014
[on the report of the Sixth Committee (A/69/496)]
69/116.	United Nations Convention on Transparency in Treaty-based Investor-State Arbitration


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 2205 (XXI) of 17 December 1966, by which it established the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law with a mandate to further the progressive harmonization and unification of the law of international trade in the interests of all peoples, in particular those of developing countries, in the extensive development of international trade,
	Recalling also its resolution 68/109 of 16 December 2013, in which it recommended the use of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law Rules on Transparency in Treaty-based Investor-State Arbitration1 and Arbitration Rules (as revised in 2010, with new article 1, paragraph 4, as adopted in 2013),2
	Recognizing the need for provisions on transparency in the settlement of treaty-based investor-State disputes to take account of the public interest involved in such arbitrations,
	Believing that the Rules on Transparency contribute significantly to the establishment of a harmonized legal framework for a fair and efficient settlement of international investment disputes, increase transparency and accountability and promote good governance,
	Recalling that, at its forty-sixth session, in 2013, the Commission recommended that the Rules on Transparency be applied through appropriate mechanisms to investor-State arbitration initiated pursuant to investment treaties concluded before the coming into effect of the Rules on Transparency, to the extent that such application is consistent with those investment treaties, and that the Commission decided to prepare a convention that was intended to give those States that wished to make the Rules on Transparency applicable to their existing investment treaties concluded before 1 April 2014 an efficient mechanism to do so, without creating any expectation that other States would use the mechanism offered by the convention,3
	Acknowledging that the Rules on Transparency might be made applicable to investor-State arbitration initiated pursuant to investment treaties concluded before 1 April 2014, the date of coming into effect of the Rules on Transparency, by means other than a convention,
	Recognizing that all States and interested international organizations were invited to participate in the preparation of the draft convention either as members or as observers during the forty-seventh session of the Commission, with full opportunity to speak and make proposals,
	Noting that the preparation of the draft convention was the subject of due deliberation in the Commission and that the draft convention benefited from consultations with Governments and interested intergovernmental and international non-governmental organizations,
	Noting with satisfaction that the text of the draft convention was circulated for comment to all States Members of the United Nations and intergovernmental organizations invited to attend the meetings of the Commission as observers, and that the comments received were before the Commission at its forty-seventh session,4
	Taking note with satisfaction of the decision of the Commission at its forty-seventh session to submit the draft convention to the General Assembly for its consideration,5
	Taking note of the draft convention approved by the Commission,6
	Expressing its appreciation to the Government of Mauritius for its offer to host a signing ceremony for the Convention in Port Louis,
	1.	Commends the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law for preparing the draft convention on transparency in treaty-based investor-State arbitration;6
	2.	Adopts the United Nations Convention on Transparency in Treaty-based Investor-State Arbitration, contained in the annex to the present resolution;
	3.	Authorizes a ceremony for the opening for signature of the Convention to be held in Port Louis on 17 March 2015, and recommends that the Convention be known as the "Mauritius Convention on Transparency";
	4.	Calls upon those Governments and regional economic integration organizations that wish to make the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law Rules on Transparency in Treaty-based Investor-State Arbitration1 applicable to arbitrations under their existing investment treaties to consider becoming a party to the Convention.

68th plenary meeting
10 December 2014
Annex
United Nations Convention on Transparency in Treaty-based 
Investor-State Arbitration

Preamble
	The Parties to this Convention,
	Recognizing the value of arbitration as a method of settling disputes that may arise in the context of international relations, and the extensive and wide-ranging use of arbitration for the settlement of investor-State disputes,
	Also recognizing the need for provisions on transparency in the settlement of treaty-based investor-State disputes to take account of the public interest involved in such arbitrations,
	Believing that the Rules on Transparency in Treaty-based Investor-State Arbitration adopted by the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law on 11 July 2013 ("UNCITRAL Rules on Transparency"), effective as of 1 April 2014, would contribute significantly to the establishment of a harmonized legal framework for a fair and efficient settlement of international investment disputes,
	Noting the great number of treaties providing for the protection of investments or investors already in force, and the practical importance of promoting the application of the UNCITRAL Rules on Transparency to arbitration under those already concluded investment treaties,
	Noting also article 1(2) and (9) of the UNCITRAL Rules on Transparency,
Have agreed as follows:

Scope of application
Article 1
1.	This Convention applies to arbitration between an investor and a State or a regional economic integration organization conducted on the basis of an investment treaty concluded before 1 April 2014 ("investor-State arbitration").
2.	The term "investment treaty" means any bilateral or multilateral treaty, including any treaty commonly referred to as a free trade agreement, economic integration agreement, trade and investment framework or cooperation agreement, or bilateral investment treaty, which contains provisions on the protection of investments or investors and a right for investors to resort to arbitration against contracting parties to that investment treaty.

Application of the UNCITRAL Rules on Transparency
Article 2
Bilateral or multilateral application
1.	The UNCITRAL Rules on Transparency shall apply to any investor-State arbitration, whether or not initiated under the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules, in which the respondent is a Party that has not made a relevant reservation under article 3(1)(a) or (b), and the claimant is of a State that is a Party that has not made a relevant reservation under article 3(1)(a).
Unilateral offer of application
2.	Where the UNCITRAL Rules on Transparency do not apply pursuant to paragraph 1, the UNCITRAL Rules on Transparency shall apply to an investor-State arbitration, whether or not initiated under the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules, in which the respondent is a Party that has not made a reservation relevant to that investor-State arbitration under article 3(1), and the claimant agrees to the application of the UNCITRAL Rules on Transparency.

Applicable version of the UNCITRAL Rules on Transparency
3.	Where the UNCITRAL Rules on Transparency apply pursuant to paragraph 1 or 2, the most recent version of those Rules as to which the respondent has not made a reservation pursuant to article 3(2) shall apply.

Article 1(7) of the UNCITRAL Rules on Transparency
4.	The final sentence of article 1(7) of the UNCITRAL Rules on Transparency shall not apply to investor-State arbitrations under paragraph 1.

Most favoured nation provision in an investment treaty
5.	The Parties to this Convention agree that a claimant may not invoke a most favoured nation provision to seek to apply, or avoid the application of, the UNCITRAL Rules on Transparency under this Convention.

Reservations
Article 3
1.	A Party may declare that:
	(a)	It shall not apply this Convention to investor-State arbitration under a specific investment treaty, identified by title and name of the contracting parties to that investment treaty;
	(b)	Article 2(1) and (2) shall not apply to investor-State arbitration conducted using a specific set of arbitration rules or procedures other than the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules, and in which it is a respondent;
	(c)	Article 2(2) shall not apply in investor-State arbitration in which it is a respondent.
2.	In the event of a revision of the UNCITRAL Rules on Transparency, a Party may, within six months of the adoption of such revision, declare that it shall not apply that revised version of the Rules.
3.	Parties may make multiple reservations in a single instrument. In such an instrument, each declaration made:
	(a)	In respect of a specific investment treaty under paragraph (1)(a);
	(b)	In respect of a specific set of arbitration rules or procedures under paragraph (1)(b);
	(c)	Under paragraph (1)(c); or
	(d)	Under paragraph (2);
shall constitute a separate reservation capable of separate withdrawal under article 4(6).
4.	No reservations are permitted except those expressly authorized in this article.
Formulation of reservations
Article 4
1.	Reservations may be made by a Party at any time, save for a reservation under article 3(2).
2.	Reservations made at the time of signature shall be subject to confirmation upon ratification, acceptance or approval. Such reservations shall take effect simultaneously with the entry into force of this Convention in respect of the Party concerned.
3.	Reservations made at the time of ratification, acceptance or approval of this Convention or accession thereto shall take effect simultaneously with the entry into force of this Convention in respect of the Party concerned.
4.	Except for a reservation made by a Party under article 3(2), which shall take effect immediately upon deposit, a reservation deposited after the entry into force of the Convention for that Party shall take effect twelve months after the date of its deposit.
5.	Reservations and their confirmations shall be deposited with the depositary.
6.	Any Party that makes a reservation under this Convention may withdraw it at any time. Such withdrawals are to be deposited with the depositary, and shall take effect upon deposit.

Application to investor-State arbitrations
Article 5
	This Convention and any reservation, or withdrawal of a reservation, shall apply only to investor-State arbitrations that are commenced after the date when the Convention, reservation, or withdrawal of a reservation, enters into force or takes effect in respect of each Party concerned.

Depositary
Article 6
	The Secretary-General of the United Nations is hereby designated as the depositary of this Convention.

Signature, ratification, acceptance, approval, accession
Article 7
1.	This Convention is open for signature in Port Louis, Mauritius, on 17 March 2015, and thereafter at United Nations Headquarters in New York by any (a) State; or (b) regional economic integration organization that is constituted by States and is a contracting party to an investment treaty.
2.	This Convention is subject to ratification, acceptance or approval by the signatories to this Convention.
3.	This Convention is open for accession by all States or regional economic integration organizations referred to in paragraph 1 which are not signatories as from the date it is open for signature.
4.	Instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession are to be deposited with the depositary.
Participation by regional economic integration organizations
Article 8
1.	When depositing an instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, a regional economic integration organization shall inform the depositary of a specific investment treaty to which it is a contracting party, identified by title and name of the contracting parties to that investment treaty.
2.	When the number of Parties is relevant in this Convention, a regional economic integration organization does not count as a Party in addition to its member States which are Parties.

Entry into force
Article 9
1.	This Convention shall enter into force six months after the date of deposit of the third instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession.
2.	When a State or a regional economic integration organization ratifies, accepts, approves or accedes to this Convention after the deposit of the third instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, this Convention enters into force in respect of that State or regional economic integration organization six months after the date of the deposit of its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession.

Amendment
Article 10
1.	Any Party may propose an amendment to the present Convention by submitting it to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. The Secretary-General shall thereupon communicate the proposed amendment to the Parties to this Convention with a request that they indicate whether they favour a conference of Parties for the purpose of considering and voting upon the proposal. In the event that within four months from the date of such communication at least one third of the Parties favour such a conference, the Secretary-General shall convene the conference under the auspices of the United Nations.
2.	The conference of Parties shall make every effort to achieve consensus on each amendment. If all efforts at consensus are exhausted and no consensus is reached, the amendment shall, as a last resort, require for its adoption a two-thirds majority vote of the Parties present and voting at the conference.
3.	An adopted amendment shall be submitted by the Secretary-General of the United Nations to all the Parties for ratification, acceptance or approval.
4.	An adopted amendment enters into force six months after the date of deposit of the third instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval. When an amendment enters into force, it shall be binding on those Parties which have expressed consent to be bound by it.
5.	When a State or a regional economic integration organization ratifies, accepts or approves an amendment that has already entered into force, the amendment enters into force in respect of that State or that regional economic integration organization six months after the date of the deposit of its instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval.
6.	Any State or regional economic integration organization which becomes a Party to the Convention after the entry into force of the amendment shall be considered as a Party to the Convention as amended.

Denunciation of this Convention
Article 11
1.	A Party may denounce this Convention at any time by means of a formal notification addressed to the depositary. The denunciation shall take effect twelve months after the notification is received by the depositary.
2.	This Convention shall continue to apply to investor-State arbitrations commenced before the denunciation takes effect.

	DONE in a single original, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic.
	IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned plenipotentiaries, being duly authorized by their respective Governments, have signed the present Convention.

1 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 17 (A/68/17), chap. III and annex I.
2 Ibid., chap. III and annex II.
3 Ibid., para. 127.
4 See A/CN.9/813 and Add.1.
5 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 17 (A/69/17), para. 106.
6 Ibid., annex I.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1468664E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/69/116<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/69/116General AssemblyDistr.: General
18 December 2014Sixty-ninth session
Agenda item 76 

14-66937 (E)
*1466937*Please recycle 

A/RES/69/116United Nations Convention on Transparency in Treaty-based Investor-State Arbitration

United Nations Convention on Transparency in Treaty-based Investor-State ArbitrationA/RES/69/116

6/7

7/7

