[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly
[on the report of the Sixth Committee (A/56/589 and Corr.1)]
		56/82.	Report of the International Law Commission on the work of its fifty-third session


	The General Assembly,
	Having considered the report of the International Law Commission on the work of its fifty-third session,1 
	Emphasizing the importance of furthering the codification and progressive development of international law as a means of implementing the purposes and principles set forth in the Charter of the United Nations and in the Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Cooperation among States in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations,2
	Recognizing the desirability of referring legal and drafting questions to the Sixth Committee, including topics that might be submitted to the International Law Commission for closer examination, and of enabling the Sixth Committee and the Commission to further enhance their contribution to the progressive development of international law and its codification,
	Wishing to enhance further the interaction between the Sixth Committee as a body of governmental representatives and the International Law Commission as a body of independent legal experts, with a view to improving the dialogue between the two organs,
	Recalling the need to keep under review those topics of international law which, given their new or renewed interest for the international community, may be suitable for the progressive development and codification of international law and therefore may be included in the future programme of work of the International Law Commission,
	Welcoming the holding of the International Law Seminar, and noting with appreciation the voluntary contributions made to the United Nations Trust Fund for the International Law Seminar,
	Stressing the usefulness of structuring the debate on the report of the International Law Commission in the Sixth Committee in such a manner that conditions are provided for concentrated attention to each of the main topics dealt with in the report,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the International Law Commission on the work of its fifty-third session;1
	2.	Expresses its appreciation to the International Law Commission for the work accomplished at its fifty-third session, in particular for the completion of the final draft articles on "Responsibility of States for internationally wrongful acts" and for the valuable work done on the issue of prevention on the topic of "International liability for injurious consequences arising out of acts not prohibited by international law (prevention of transboundary harm from hazardous activities)";
	3.	Requests the International Law Commission, taking into consideration its decision at its forty-ninth session to proceed with its work on the topic of "International liability for injurious consequences arising out of acts not prohibited by international law", undertaking, as a first step, the issue of prevention,3 to resume, during its fifty-fourth session, its consideration of the liability aspects of the topic, bearing in mind the interrelationship between prevention and liability, and taking into account the developments in international law and comments by Governments;
	4.	Draws the attention of Governments to the importance for the International Law Commission of having their views on the various aspects involved in the topics on the agenda of the Commission, in particular on all the specific issues identified in chapter III of its report;
	5.	Reiterates its invitation to Governments, within the context of paragraph 4 above, to respond, to the extent possible, in writing by 28 February 2002 to the questionnaire and requests for materials on unilateral acts of States circulated by the Secretariat to all Governments on 31 August 2001;
	6.	Also reiterates its invitation to Governments to submit the most relevant national legislation, decisions of domestic courts and State practice relevant to diplomatic protection in order to assist the International Law Commission in its work on the topic "Diplomatic protection";
	7.	Recommends that the International Law Commission, taking into account the comments and observations of Governments, whether in writing or expressed orally in debates in the General Assembly, continue its work on the topics in its current programme;
	8.	Requests the International Law Commission, taking into account paragraph 259 of its report, to begin its work on the topic "Responsibility of international organizations" and to give further consideration to the remaining topics to be included in its long-term programme of work, having due regard to comments made by Governments;
	9.	Invites the International Law Commission to continue taking measures to enhance its efficiency and productivity;
	10.	Takes note of paragraph 260 of the report of the International Law Commission with regard to the cost-saving measures taken by the Commission in organizing its programme of work, and encourages the Commission to continue taking such measures at its future sessions;
	11.	Takes note also of paragraph 261 of the report, and decides that the next session of the International Law Commission shall be held at the United Nations Office at Geneva from 29 April to 7 June and from 22 July to 16 August 2002;
	12.	Stresses the desirability of further enhancing the dialogue between the International Law Commission and the Sixth Committee, and in this context encourages, inter alia, the holding of informal discussions between the members of the Sixth Committee and those members of the Commission attending the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly;
	13.	Requests the International Law Commission to continue to pay special attention to indicating in its annual report, for each topic, any specific issues on which expressions of views by Governments, either in the Sixth Committee or in written form, would be of particular interest in providing effective guidance for the Commission in its further work;
	14.	Also requests the International Law Commission to continue the implementation of article 16, paragraph (e), and article 26, paragraphs 1 and 2, of its statute in order to further strengthen cooperation between the Commission and other bodies concerned with international law, having in mind the usefulness of such cooperation;
	15.	Notes that consulting with national organizations and individual experts concerned with international law may assist Governments in considering whether to make comments and observations on drafts submitted by the International Law Commission and in formulating their comments and observations;
	16.	Reaffirms its previous decisions concerning the role of the Codification Division of the Office of Legal Affairs of the Secretariat and those concerning the summary records and other documentation of the International Law Commission;
	17.	Expresses the hope that the International Law Seminar will continue to be held in connection with the sessions of the International Law Commission and that an increasing number of participants, in particular from developing countries, will be given the opportunity to attend the Seminar, and appeals to States to continue to make urgently needed voluntary contributions to the United Nations Trust Fund for the International Law Seminar;
	18.	Requests the Secretary-General to provide the International Law Seminar with adequate services, including interpretation, as required, and encourages him to continue considering ways to improve the structure and content of the Seminar;
	19.	Also requests the Secretary-General to forward to the International Law Commission, for its attention, the records of the debate on the report of the Commission at the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly, together with such written statements as delegations may circulate in conjunction with their oral statements, and to prepare and distribute a topical summary of the debate, following established practice;
	20.	Requests the Secretariat to circulate to States, as soon as possible after the conclusion of the session of the International Law Commission, chapter II of its report containing a summary of the work of that session and the draft articles adopted on either first or second reading by the Commission;
	21.	Recommends that the debate on the report of the International Law Commission at the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly commence on 28 October 2002.

85th plenary meeting
12 December 2001
1 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 10 and corrigendum (A/56/10 and Corr.1).
2 Resolution 2625 (XXV), annex.
3 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-second Session, Supplement No. 10 (A/52/10), chap. VII, para. 168.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0147785E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/56/82<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

2
    

3

United NationsA/RES/56/82General AssemblyDistr.: General
18 January 2002Fifty-sixth session
Agenda item 162

01 47785

A/RES/56/82


A/RES/56/82


4

3

