[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly
[without reference to a Main Committee (A/57/L.43/Rev.1 and Add.1)]
		57/146.	Special assistance for the economic recovery and reconstruction of the Democratic Republic of the Congo


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its previous resolutions on special assistance for the economic recovery and reconstruction of the Democratic Republic of the Congo,
	Recalling also all resolutions of the Security Council and the statements by its President regarding the Democratic Republic of the Congo,
	Recalling further the Ceasefire Agreement signed in Lusaka1 and the Kampala disengagement plan,2 the obligations of all signatories to those agreements and the obligations deriving from all relevant Security Council resolutions, including resolution 1304 (2000) of 16 June 2000,
	Reaffirming the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and all States in the region,
	Alarmed at the plight of the civilian population throughout the country, and calling for its protection,
	Gravely concerned at the deteriorating humanitarian, economic and social situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in particular in eastern Congo, and at the effect of the continued fighting on the inhabitants of the country, especially women and children,
	Deeply concerned at the human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) pandemic, in particular among women and girls, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo,
	Expressing its deep concern at the dire consequences of the conflict for the humanitarian and human rights situations and at the findings contained in the reports on the illegal exploitation of the natural resources of the Democratic Republic of the Congo3 in this regard,
	Gravely concerned at the negative impact of war on the promotion of sustainable development in the Great Lakes Region,
	Deeply concerned at the continued extensive destruction of life and property, as well as the severe damage to infrastructure and the environment suffered by the Democratic Republic of the Congo,
	Bearing in mind the fact that the Democratic Republic of the Congo hosts thousands of refugees from neighbouring countries, which places a great burden on its limited resources, and expressing the hope that conditions will be created that will facilitate a safe and voluntary return of refugees, 
	Recalling that the Democratic Republic of the Congo is a least developed country with severe economic and social problems arising from its weak economic infrastructure and aggravated by the ongoing conflict,
	Bearing in mind the close interrelationship between ensuring peace and security and the ability of the country to meet the humanitarian needs of its people and take effective steps towards the rapid revitalization of the economy, and reaffirming the urgent need to assist the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the rehabilitation and reconstruction of its damaged economy and in its efforts to restore basic services and the infrastructure of the country,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;4
	2.	Welcomes the signature by the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Republic of Rwanda of the Peace Agreement in Pretoria on 30 July 20025 and the signature by the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Republic of Uganda of the Luanda Agreement on 6 September 2002, and also welcomes the efforts of the Governments of South Africa and Angola, and of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, in facilitating the adoption of these agreements;
	3.	Urges all parties concerned in the region to cease military activities and to cease any support for armed groups; 
	4.	Welcomes the decision taken by all foreign parties fully to withdraw their troops from the territory of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, as well as the progress made in the implementation of those processes, stresses the importance of the withdrawals being completed in a transparent, orderly and verified manner, and calls upon the signatories to these agreements to implement them fully;
	5.	Urges all parties concerned in the region to cease any recruitment, training and use of child soldiers, welcomes the initial steps taken by the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to demobilize and reintegrate child soldiers, and urges the Government and all parties to continue their efforts in this regard;
	6.	Welcomes the commitment of the Congolese parties to achieve an inclusive agreement on the political transition, stresses the importance of such an agreement to the wider peace process, and calls upon all Congolese parties to cooperate actively with a view to the speedy conclusion of such an agreement which is needed for improved humanitarian access;
	7.	Stresses that a successful conclusion to the peace process and the resumption of economic activity in the Democratic Republic of the Congo are inextricably linked, and underlines the need for further international economic assistance in this regard;
	8.	Expresses its deep concern at the worsening humanitarian situation throughout the country and the very high number of internally displaced persons in the eastern part and, in particular, in the Ituri region, and urges all parties to avoid further population displacement and to facilitate the safe and voluntary return of refugees and internally displaced persons to their places of origin;
	9.	Also expresses its deep concern especially at the deteriorating humanitarian situation in the Ituri region, calls upon all Congolese parties on the ground to cooperate fully within the Ituri Pacification Commission with a view to reaching an agreement promptly, and calls upon all States in the region to bring their influence to bear on the Congolese parties so that this agreement can be reached as soon as possible;
	10.	Welcomes the adoption of new coordination mechanisms aimed at ensuring a coherent and effective response to the multifaceted humanitarian crisis in the Democratic Republic of the Congo;
	11.	Urges compliance with international human rights law, and urges all parties to respect international humanitarian law, in particular the Geneva Conventions of 19496 and the additional Protocols thereto, of 1977;7
	12.	Urges all parties to respect fully international humanitarian law so as to ensure the safe and unhindered access of humanitarian personnel to all affected populations throughout the territory of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the safety of United Nations and humanitarian personnel;
	13.	Calls for the reopening of the Kisangani-Kindu rail and river link in order to facilitate the delivery of humanitarian assistance, as well as access for humanitarian personnel;
	14.	Calls upon the international community to increase its support for humanitarian relief activities within the Democratic Republic of the Congo;
	15.	Invites Governments to continue to provide support to the Democratic Republic of the Congo;
	16.	Requests the Secretary-General:
	(a)	To continue to consult urgently with regional leaders, in coordination with the Interim President of the African Union, on ways to bring about a peaceful and durable solution to the conflict, in accordance with the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement1 and relevant Security Council resolutions;
	(b)	To continue to consult with regional leaders, in coordination with the Interim President of the African Union, in order to convene, when appropriate, an international conference on peace, security and development in Central Africa and in the Great Lakes region, under the auspices of the United Nations and the African Union, to address the problems of the region in a comprehensive manner;
	(c)	To keep under review the economic situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo with a view to promoting participation in and support for a programme of financial and material assistance to the country to enable it to meet its urgent needs in terms of economic recovery and reconstruction;
	(d)	To submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session a report on the actions taken pursuant to the present resolution.

75th plenary meeting
16 December 2002
1 S/1999/815, annex.
2 See S/2000/330 and Corr.1, paras. 21-28.
3 See S/2001/357, S/2001/1072 and S/2002/1146.
4 A/57/377.
5 S/2002/914, annex.
6 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, Nos. 970-973.
7 Ibid., vol. 1125, Nos. 17512 and 17513.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0254785E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/57/146<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

1
    

1

United NationsA/RES/57/146General AssemblyDistr.: General
22 January 2003Fifty-seventh session
Agenda item 21 (b)

02 54785

A/RES/57/146

A/RES/57/146

4

3

