[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 18 December 2008
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/63/431)]
63/194.	Improving the coordination of efforts against trafficking in persons


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 61/180 of 20 December 2006 on improving the coordination of efforts against trafficking in persons and other relevant General Assembly resolutions on trafficking in persons and other contemporary forms of slavery, 
	Recalling also Economic and Social Council resolution 2008/33 of 25 July 2008 on strengthening coordination of the United Nations and other efforts in fighting trafficking in persons and previous Council resolutions on trafficking in persons, 
	Recalling further the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime1 and the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime,2 the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography3 and the Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery, the Slave Trade, and Institutions and Practices Similar to Slavery,4
	Welcoming the progress made at the fourth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, and taking note of the decisions of the Conference on the issue of trafficking in persons,
	Recognizing that trafficking in persons impairs the enjoyment of human rights, continues to pose a serious challenge to humanity and requires a concerted international response,
	Welcoming the decisions of the Human Rights Council to establish the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of slavery, including its causes and consequences,5 and to extend the mandates of the Special Rapporteur on trafficking in persons, especially women and children6 and the Special Rapporteur on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography,7
	Recognizing that broad international cooperation between Member States and relevant intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations is essential for effectively countering the threat of trafficking in persons and other contemporary forms of slavery,
	Recognizing also the need to continue fostering a global partnership against trafficking in persons and other contemporary forms of slavery,
	Recognizing further that the provision of effective support to the work of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention should be an important part of the coordination efforts of the United Nations system on the issue of trafficking in persons,
	Recognizing the importance of bilateral, subregional, regional and international cooperation mechanisms and initiatives, including information exchanges on good practices, of Governments and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to address the problem of trafficking in persons, especially women and children,
	Reaffirming the commitment made by world leaders at the Millennium Summit8 and the 2005 World Summit9 to devise, enforce and strengthen effective measures to combat and eliminate all forms of trafficking in persons to counter the demand for trafficked victims and to protect the victims,
	1.	Urges Member States that have not yet done so to consider taking measures to ratify or accede to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime1 and the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime,2 and to implement fully all aspects of those instruments;
	2.	Also urges Member States that have not yet done so to consider taking measures to ratify or accede to the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography,3 the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women10 and the Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery, the Slave Trade, and Institutions and Practices Similar to Slavery,4 and to implement fully all aspects of those instruments;
	3.	Recognizes that broad international cooperation between Member States and relevant intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations is essential for effectively countering the threat of trafficking in persons and other contemporary forms of slavery;
	4.	Welcomes the steps taken by human rights treaty bodies and the Special Rapporteur on trafficking in persons, especially women and children, United Nations agencies and other concerned intergovernmental and governmental organizations, within their mandates, as well as civil society, to address the problem of trafficking in persons, and encourages them to continue doing so and to share their knowledge and best practices as widely as possible;
	5.	Calls upon Governments to continue their efforts to criminalize trafficking in persons in all its forms, including for the sexual exploitation of children, to take measures to criminalize child sex tourism,  to condemn the practice of trafficking in persons, and to investigate, prosecute, condemn and penalize traffickers and intermediaries, while providing protection and assistance to the victims of trafficking with full respect for their human rights, and invites Member States to continue to support those United Nations agencies and international organizations that are actively involved in victim protection;
	6.	Encourages all stakeholders, including the private sector, to strengthen the coordination of efforts, including through the Inter-Agency Coordination Group against Trafficking in Persons and regional as well as bilateral initiatives that promote cooperation and collaboration;
	7.	Welcomes the holding of the Vienna Forum to Fight Human Trafficking, from 13 to 15 February 2008, as a part of the awareness-raising efforts to fight human trafficking, and requests the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime to continue consultations with Member States, to ensure that the Global Initiative to Fight Human Trafficking is carried out as a technical assistance project within the mandates agreed to by the relevant governing bodies and to brief Member States on the workplan of the Global Initiative, to be executed before the end of the project in 2009;
	8.	Recognizes the importance of comparable data disaggregated by types of trafficking in persons, sex and age, as well as of strengthening national capacity for the gathering, analysing and reporting of such data, and welcomes the efforts of the Inter-Agency Coordination Group against Trafficking in Persons, drawing on the comparative advantages of the respective agencies, to share information, experiences and good practices on anti-trafficking activities of the partner agencies with Governments, other international and regional organizations, non-governmental organizations and other relevant bodies; 
	9.	Acknowledges the important work on data collection and analysis conducted by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime under its Global Programme against Trafficking in Human Beings, as well as by the International Organization for Migration through its global Counter-Trafficking Module database;
	10.	Takes note of the discussions at the thematic debate of the General Assembly on human trafficking, held in New York on 3 June 2008, which included a discussion on the advisability of a United Nations strategy or plan of action on preventing trafficking in persons and protecting and assisting victims of trafficking; 
	11.	Calls upon the Secretary-General to collect the views of all stakeholders, including Member States and regional and international organizations, on how to achieve the full and effective coordination of efforts against trafficking in persons of all Member States, organizations, machineries, treaty bodies and all other partners within and outside the United Nations system, including civil society, and to ensure the full and effective implementation of all legal instruments relevant to trafficking in persons, particularly the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, without prejudice to the mandate of the working group established by the Conference of the Parties to the Convention, and submit, no later than 1 June 2009, a background paper to the General Assembly at its sixty-third session;
	12.	Invites all Member States to accelerate the consideration of the advisability of a global plan of action on preventing trafficking in persons, prosecuting traffickers and protecting and assisting victims of trafficking, which would achieve the full and effective coordination of efforts against trafficking in persons of all Member States, organizations, machineries, treaty bodies and all other partners within and outside the United Nations system, including civil society, and ensure the full and effective implementation of all legal instruments relevant to trafficking in persons, particularly the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children;
	13.	Reiterates its request to the Secretary-General to provide the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme with sufficient resources for the full implementation of its mandates on combating trafficking in persons, in conformity with its high priorities, and to provide adequate support to the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, and invites Member States to provide voluntary contributions to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime for the purpose of providing assistance to Member States upon request;
	14.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the Conference of the Parties to the Convention and the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session a report on the implementation of the present resolution and on possible approaches to strengthen the coordination efforts against trafficking in persons of the Inter-Agency Coordination Group against Trafficking in Persons. 

71st plenary meeting
18 December 2008
1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2225, No. 39574.
2 Ibid., vol. 2237, No. 39574.
3 Ibid., vol. 2171, No. 27531.
4 Ibid., vol. 266, No. 3822.
5 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-third Session, Supplement No. 53 (A/63/53), chap. I, sect. A, resolution 6/14.
6 Ibid., chap. III, sect. A, resolution 8/12.
7 Ibid., chap. II, resolution 7/13.
8 See resolution 55/2.
9 See resolution 60/1.
10 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1249, No. 20378.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0848243E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/63/194<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/63/194General AssemblyDistr.: General
23 January 2009Sixty-third session
Agenda item 97

08-48243

A/RES/63/194

A/RES/63/194

4

3

