[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 5 March 2015
[without reference to a Main Committee (A/69/L.54 and Add.1)]
69/268.	Education for democracy


	The General Assembly,
	Reaffirming the Charter of the United Nations, including the principles and purposes contained therein, and recognizing that human rights, the rule of law and democracy are interlinked and mutually reinforcing and that they belong to the universal and indivisible core values and principles of the United Nations,
	Reaffirming also the right of everyone to education, which is enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,1 the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,2 the Convention on the Rights of the Child,3 the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,4 the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities5 and in other relevant instruments,
	Recalling its resolution 67/18 of 28 November 2012 and the results of the plan of action for the second phase (2010-2014) of the World Programme for Human Rights Education,6 and welcoming the plan of action for the third phase (2015-2019) of the World Programme,7
	Taking note of section VII, entitled "Supporting the global citizenship agenda through education for democracy", of resolution 1 adopted on 20 November 2013 by the General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization at its thirty-seventh session,8
	Stressing the complementarity of human rights education, training and learning and education for democracy,
	Reaffirming that democracy is a universal value based on the freely expressed will of people to determine their own political, economic, social and cultural systems and their full participation in all aspects of their lives,9
	Recalling the United Nations Millennium Declaration10 wherein the Member States committed themselves to sparing no effort to promote and strengthen democracy, good governance and the rule of law at national and international levels, as well as respect for all internationally recognized human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the right to development, and resolved to respect fully and uphold the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, to strive for the full protection and promotion in all countries of civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights for all and to strengthen the capacity of all countries to implement the principles and practices of democracy and respect for human rights, including minority rights,
	Recognizing that, while democracies share common features, there is no single model of democracy and that democracy does not belong to any country or region,
	Mindful of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action of the World Conference on Human Rights,11 the World Plan of Action on Education for Human Rights and Democracy adopted by the International Congress on Education for Human Rights and Democracy,12 the World Programme for Human Rights Education proclaimed by the General Assembly in its resolution 59/113 A of 10 December 2004 and the United Nations Declaration on Human Rights Education and Training,13
	Recalling with appreciation the establishment of the United Nations Democracy Fund and the efforts of the Fund to advance the United Nations democracy agenda, as well as the operational activities in support of democratization processes carried out by the United Nations system, including by the Department of Political Affairs of the Secretariat, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the United Nations Development Programme,
	Acknowledging the role of international, regional and other intergovernmental organizations in support of democracy,
	Recognizing that education contributes to the strengthening of democracy, the realization of human rights and the achievement of all internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals, the development of human potential, poverty alleviation and the fostering of greater understanding among peoples,
	Recalling its resolution 68/309 of 10 September 2014, in which it welcomed the report of the Open Working Group on Sustainable Development Goals14 and decided that the proposal of the Open Working Group contained in the report shall be the main basis for integrating sustainable development goals into the post-2015 development agenda, while recognizing that other inputs will also be considered, in the intergovernmental negotiation process at the sixty-ninth session of the General Assembly,
	1.	Reaffirms the fundamental link between democratic governance, peace, development and the promotion and protection of all human rights and fundamental freedoms, which are interdependent and mutually reinforcing;
	2.	Recalls the Global Education First initiative launched by the Secretary-General on 26 September 2012, in particular its third priority area on fostering global citizenship;
	3.	Encourages the Secretary-General, United Nations agencies such as the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the United Nations Children's Fund, the United Nations Population Fund, the United Nations Development Programme and the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN-Women), and other relevant stakeholders to strengthen their efforts to promote the values of peace, human rights, democracy, respect for religious and cultural diversity and justice through education;
	4.	Strongly encourages Member States to integrate education for democracy, along with civic education and human rights education, into their education standards and to develop and strengthen programmes, curricula and curricular and extracurricular educational activities aimed at the promotion and consolidation of democratic values and democratic governance and human rights, taking into account innovative approaches and best practices in the field, in order to facilitate citizens' empowerment and participation in political life and policymaking at all levels;
	5.	Invites United Nations agencies, funds and programmes, including the United Nations Democracy Fund, the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Children's Fund, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, to provide appropriate expertise and resources for the development of relevant educational programmes and materials for democracy;
	6.	Encourages international, regional and other intergovernmental organizations, within their respective mandates, to share their best practices and experiences in the field of education for democracy, including but not limited to civic education, with each other and with the United Nations system, as appropriate;
	7.	Decides to continue its consideration of the issue of education for democracy at its seventy-first session, under the agenda item entitled "Integrated and coordinated implementation of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and summits in the economic, social and related fields";
	8.	Invites Governments, the agencies and organizations of the United Nations system and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to intensify their efforts to promote education for democracy, requests the Secretary-General, in cooperation with the Director-General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, within existing reporting obligations, to report to the General Assembly at its seventy-first session on the implementation of the present resolution, and invites the Special Rapporteur of the Human Rights Council on the right to education, within his existing mandate, to contribute to the report of the Secretary-General.

81st plenary meeting
5 March 2015

1 Resolution 217 A (III).
2 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
3 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1577, No. 27531.
4 Ibid., vol. 1249, No. 20378.
5 Ibid., vol. 2515, No. 44910.
6 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-fifth Session, Supplement No. 53A (A/65/53/Add.1), chap. II, resolution 15/11.
7 Ibid., Sixty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 53A and corrigenda (A/69/53/Add.1 and Corr.1 and 2), chap. IV, sect. A, resolution 27/12.  
8 United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Records of the General Conference, Thirty-seventh session, Paris, 5-20 November 2013, vol. 1 and corrigendum, Resolutions, sect. IV. 
9 Resolution 60/1, para. 135.
10 Resolution 55/2.
11 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
12 A/CONF.157/PC/42/Add.6.
13 Resolution 66/137, annex.
14 A/68/970 and Corr.1.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1506211E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/69/268<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/69/268General AssemblyDistr.: General
7 April 2015Sixty-ninth session
Agenda item 13

15-03515 (E)
*1503515*Please recycle 

A/RES/69/268Education for democracy

Education for democracyA/RES/69/268

2/3

3/3

