[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 8 December 2010
[on the report of the First Committee (A/65/410)]
65/61.	Bilateral reductions of strategic nuclear arms and the new framework for strategic relations


	The General Assembly,
	Referring to its resolution 59/94 of 3 December 2004 and other relevant resolutions,
	Noting with satisfaction the establishment of a new strategic relationship between the Russian Federation and the United States of America, based on the principles of indivisible security, trust, openness, predictability and cooperation, and also the desire of the two countries to bring their respective nuclear postures into alignment with this new relationship, and their endeavour to reduce further the role and importance of nuclear weapons,
	Welcoming the resolve of the Russian Federation and the United States of America to work together and with other States and international organizations in the interests of fulfilling their obligations under article VI of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,1 which was opened for signature on 1 July 1968,
	Taking into consideration the obligation of all States parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons to fulfil their obligations under the Treaty, 
	Recognizing the importance of the Treaty on the Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms (the START Treaty),2 which has expired, and welcoming the fulfilment by Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation, Ukraine and the United States of America of the obligations they undertook in accordance with the START Treaty,
	Stressing the importance of the reaffirmation, in the joint statement of the Russian Federation and the United States of America of 4 December 2009 on the expiration of the START Treaty, of the security assurances for Belarus, Kazakhstan and Ukraine recorded in the Budapest Memorandum of 5 December 1994, 
	Recognizing the importance of the Treaty on Strategic Offensive Reductions (the SORT Treaty),3 and welcoming the fulfilment by the Russian Federation and the United States of America of the obligations they undertook in accordance with the SORT Treaty,
	Noting the growing cooperation between the Russian Federation and the United States of America with respect to countering serious challenges to international security, which was demonstrated, in particular, by their joint efforts to implement Security Council resolution 1540 (2004) of 28 April 2004, to launch and give substance to the Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism, and to enhance nuclear security and convert research reactors in third countries,
	1.	Welcomes the signing of the Treaty between the Russian Federation and the United States of America on Measures for the Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms (the New START Treaty) on 8 April 2010;
	2.	Notes that the Russian Federation and the United States of America are committed to continuing the development of a new strategic relationship based on mutual trust, openness, predictability and cooperation by following up on the successful negotiation of the New START Treaty, and expresses the hope for continuation of a constructive dialogue between the two countries on the basis of fundamental principles stated in the preamble of the New START Treaty;
	3.	Supports the consistent commitment of the Russian Federation and the United States of America to the continuation of efforts for reducing strategic offensive arms, and recognizes that the New START Treaty will foster the development of more favourable conditions for actively promoting security and cooperation and strengthening international stability;
	4.	Recognizes the importance of the contributions made by Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation, Ukraine and the United States of America, as States parties to the START Treaty,2 to nuclear disarmament as part of their commitment to fulfilling their obligations under article VI of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons;1
	5.	Welcomes the fact that the successful implementation of the START Treaty by the parties resulted in the reduction of their deployed strategic nuclear weapons by approximately 30 per cent during the fifteen-year span of the Treaty, thereby promoting security and cooperation and strengthening international stability;
	6.	Expresses the hope that the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty,4 which opened for signature on 24 September 1996, will enter into force at an early date;
	7.	Notes with approval that the Russian Federation and the United States of America have stopped the production of fissile materials for use in nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices, expresses support for the early commencement of international negotiations within the framework of an approved programme of work of the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva for the conclusion of a verifiable treaty to end the production of fissile materials for use in nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices, and encourages the nuclear-weapon States to engage the International Atomic Energy Agency to monitor fissile material designated by each of those States as no longer required for military purposes; 
	8.	Deeply appreciates, in this context, the implementation of the 1993 Agreement between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of the United States of America concerning the Disposition of Highly Enriched Uranium Extracted from Nuclear Weapons, under which more than 400 tons of Russian highly enriched uranium have been blended down for use as power reactor fuel in the United States of America, and the fact that, in accordance with this Agreement, the quantity of highly enriched uranium blended down will total 500 tons;
	9.	Welcomes the commitment of the Russian Federation and the United States of America to the implementation, given dependable funding, of the 2000 Agreement between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of the United States of America concerning the Management and Disposition of Plutonium Designated as No Longer Required for Defence Purposes and Related Cooperation, as reflected in the Protocol to amend the Agreement, signed by the Secretary of State of the United States of America, Hillary Clinton, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation, Sergey V. Lavrov, on 13 April 2010;
	10.	Notes the intentions of the Russian Federation and the United States of America to continue appropriately to notify other States Members of the United Nations concerning their nuclear arms reduction activities;
	11.	Also notes the growing expectations of the international community that progress will continue to be made on nuclear disarmament, expresses support for current and future efforts in this area, and calls upon all States Members of the United Nations to make an active contribution to the disarmament process.

60th plenary meeting
8 December 2010
1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 729, No. 10485.
2 The United Nations Disarmament Yearbook, vol. 16: 1991 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.92.IX.1), appendix II.
3 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2350, No. 42195.
4 See resolution 50/245.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1051620E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/65/61<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/65/61General AssemblyDistr.: General
13 January 2011Sixty-fifth session
Agenda item 97

10-51620
*1051620*

A/RES/65/61

A/RES/65/61

2

3

