[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 22 December 2004
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/59/485/Add.2)]
59/241.	International migration and development


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development adopted at Cairo,1 in particular chapter X on international migration, and the key actions for the further implementation of the Programme of Action, set out in the annex to General Assembly resolution S-21/2 of 2 July 1999, in particular section II.C on international migration, as well as the relevant provisions contained in the Copenhagen Declaration on Social Development,2 the Programme of Action of the World Summit for Social Development,3 the Platform for Action adopted by the Fourth World Conference on Women4 and the outcome documents of the twenty-fourth5 and twenty-fifth6 special sessions of the General Assembly,
	Recalling also its relevant resolutions, in particular resolutions 57/270 B of 23 June 2003, 58/190 of 22 December 2003 and 58/208 of 23 December 2003, in which it decided to devote a high-level dialogue to international migration and development during its sixty-first session, bearing in mind that the purpose of the high-level dialogue is to discuss the multidimensional aspects of international migration and development in order to identify appropriate ways and means to maximize its development benefits and minimize its negative impacts,
	Reaffirming the obligations of all States to promote and protect all human rights and fundamental freedoms, reaffirming also the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,7 and recalling the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,8 the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women9 and the Convention on the Rights of the Child,10
	Noting the work undertaken under the International Migration Policy Programme by the United Nations Institute for Training and Research, the International Organization for Migration and the United Nations Population Fund, in partnership with the International Labour Office, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and other relevant international and regional institutions, with a view to strengthening the capacity of Governments to manage migration flows at the national and regional levels and thus foster greater cooperation among States towards orderly migration,
	Noting also the ongoing efforts and recent activities within the United Nations system and the other intergovernmental activities and multilateral initiatives on international migration and development being undertaken, as well as the exchanges of information on the subject,
	Recalling the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families,11 which entered into force in July 2003,
	Welcoming the adoption of the special theme of the thirty-ninth session of the Commission on Population and Development in 2006, which will be "International migration and development",12
	Taking note of the views of the Member States on the question of convening a United Nations conference on international migration, its scope, form and agenda, noting the low number of respondents to the survey of the Secretariat, and in this context inviting the Secretary-General to continue considering the issue,
	Acknowledging the important contribution provided by migrants and migration to development as well as the complex interrelationship between migration and development,
	Aware of the fact that all countries are impacted by international migration, and hence stressing the crucial importance of dialogue and cooperation so as to better understand the international migration phenomenon, including its gender perspective, and to identify appropriate ways and means to maximize its development benefits and minimize its negative impacts,
	Realizing the benefits that international migration can bring to migrants, their families, the receiving societies and their communities of origin and the need for countries of origin, transit and destination to ensure that migrants, including migrant workers, are not subject to exploitation of any kind and the need to ensure that the human rights and dignity of all migrants and their families, in particular of women migrant workers, are respected and protected,
	Noting that an overall commitment to multiculturalism helps to provide a context for the effective integration of migrants, preventing and combating discrimination and promoting solidarity and tolerance in receiving societies,
	Aware that, among other important factors, both domestic and international, the widening economic and social gap between and among many countries and the marginalization of some countries in the global economy, due in part to the uneven impact of the benefits of globalization and liberalization, have contributed to large flows of people between and among countries and to the intensification of the complex phenomenon of international migration,
	Recognizing that countries can be concurrently any combination of origin, transit and/or destination,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;13
	2.	Reconfirms that the Secretary-General will report to the General Assembly at its sixtieth session on the organizational details of the 2006 high-level dialogue;
	3.	Recognizes the important contributions that international and regional efforts, including by the regional commissions, can provide to the high-level dialogue on international migration and development;
	4.	Invites appropriate regional consultative processes and other major initiatives undertaken by Member States in the field of international migration to contribute to the high-level dialogue;
	5.	Takes note of the establishment of the Global Commission on International Migration;
	6.	Calls upon all relevant bodies, agencies, funds and programmes of the United Nations system and other relevant intergovernmental, regional and subregional organizations, within their continuing mandated activities, to continue to address the issue of international migration and development, with a view to integrating migration issues, including a gender perspective and cultural diversity, in a more coherent way within the broader context of the implementation of agreed economic and social development goals and respect for all human rights;
	7.	Encourages Governments of countries of origin, countries of transit and countries of destination to increase cooperation on issues related to migration, and notes with appreciation the numerous meetings and conferences convened relating to migration and development, in particular in the context of regional cooperation;
	8.	Invites Governments, with the assistance of the international community, where appropriate, to seek to make the option of remaining in one's own country viable for all people, in particular through efforts to achieve sustainable development, leading to a better economic balance between developed and developing countries;
	9.	Reaffirms the need to adopt policies and undertake measures to reduce the cost of the transfer of migrant remittances to developing countries, and welcomes the efforts of Governments and stakeholders in this regard;
	10.	Requests the Secretary-General, within existing resources, to prepare a comprehensive overview of studies and analyses on the multidimensional aspects of migration and development, including the effects of migration on economic and social development in developed and developing countries, and on the effects of the movements of highly skilled migrant workers and those with advanced education;
	11.	Also requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the General Assembly at its sixty-first session on the implementation of the present resolution.

75th plenary meeting
22 December 2004
1 Report of the International Conference on Population and Development, Cairo, 5-13 September 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.95.XIII.18), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
2 Report of the World Summit for Social Development, Copenhagen, 6-12 March 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.8), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
3 Ibid., annex II.
4 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
5 Resolution S-24/2, annex.
6 Resolution S-25/2, annex.
7 Resolution 217 A (III).
8 Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.
9 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol.1249, No.20378.
10 Ibid., vol. 1577, No. 27531.
11 Resolution 45/158, annex.
12 Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2004, Supplement No. 5 (E/2004/25), chap. I.B, decision 2004/1.
13 A/59/325.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0449072E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/59/241<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/59/241General AssemblyDistr.: General
28 February 2005Fifty-ninth session
Agenda item 87 (b)

04-49072

A/RES/59/241

A/RES/59/241

2

3

