[Start1]

Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 17 December 2015
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/70/489/Add.1)]
70/145.	Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol thereto


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its previous relevant resolutions, the most recent of which was resolution 67/160 of 20 December 2012, as well as relevant resolutions of the Human Rights Council, the Commission for Social Development and the Commission on Human Rights,
	Recalling also its resolution 68/268 of 9 April 2014 on strengthening and enhancing the effective functioning of the human rights treaty body system,
	Recalling further the universality, indivisibility, interdependence and interrelatedness of all human rights and fundamental freedoms and the need for persons with disabilities to be guaranteed the full enjoyment of their rights and freedoms without discrimination,
	Welcoming the fact that, since the opening for signature of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities1 and the Optional Protocol thereto2 on 30 March 2007, 160 States have signed and 160 States and 1 regional integration organization have ratified or acceded to the Convention and 92 States have signed and 88 States have ratified the Optional Protocol,
	Bearing in mind the upcoming tenth anniversary of the adoption of the Convention, to be commemorated in December 2016,
	Welcoming the appointment of the Special Rapporteur on the rights of persons with disabilities by the Human Rights Council and her report to the General Assembly on the right of persons with disabilities to social protection,3
	Noting with appreciation the work and activities that have been and continue to be undertaken in support of the Convention, including through, inter alia, the Conference of States Parties to the Convention, the report of the Secretary-General,4 the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Special Rapporteur, the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Disability and Accessibility and the Inter-Agency Support Group on the Convention,
	Acknowledging the contribution of recent international meetings and their outcome documents, including, inter alia, the high-level meeting of the General Assembly on the realization of the Millennium Development Goals and other internationally agreed development goals for persons with disabilities: the way forward, a disability-inclusive development agenda towards 2015 and beyond, held on 23 September 2013,5 the high-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly known as the World Conference on Indigenous Peoples, held on 22 and 23 September 2014,6 the Third United Nations World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction, held in Sendai, Japan, from 14 to 18 March 2015,7 and the United Nations summit for the adoption of the post-2015 development agenda, held from 25 to 27 September 2015,8 towards the fulfilment and mainstreaming of the rights of persons with disabilities,
	Welcoming the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development on 25 September 20158 and its inclusion of persons with disabilities,
	Expressing concern that persons with disabilities, in particular women and girls, can face multiple and intersecting forms of discrimination,
	1.	Calls upon those States that have not yet done so to consider signing and ratifying the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities1 and the Optional Protocol thereto2 as a matter of priority;
	2.	Encourages States that have ratified the Convention and submitted one or more reservations to it to review regularly the effect and continued relevance of such reservations and to consider the possibility of withdrawing them;
	3.	Invites the Secretary-General to intensify efforts to assist States to become parties to the Convention and the Optional Protocol thereto, bearing in mind that the upcoming tenth anniversary of the adoption of the Convention offers an opportunity to create new momentum towards its universalization, including by providing assistance with a view to achieving universal adherence;
	4.	Emphasizes the importance of mainstreaming disability issues as an integral part of relevant sustainable development strategies, and encourages States to apply a human rights-based approach and to intensify their efforts to advance the rights of persons with disabilities in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development,8 consistent with their international obligations;
	5.	Notes that disability-specific indicators, which are sensitive to the measuring of existing inequality gaps within different population groups, can improve the identification of existing social, economic and political inequalities, and recalls that processes for the follow-up to and review of the 2030 Agenda at all levels will be, inter alia, based on data that is of high-quality, accessible, timely, reliable and disaggregated by income, sex, age, race, ethnicity, migration status, disability and geographic location and other characteristics that are relevant within national contexts;
	6.	Requests United Nations agencies and organizations, and invites intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, to continue to strengthen efforts undertaken to disseminate accessible and easy to understand information on the Convention and the Optional Protocol thereto, including to children and young people to promote their understanding, and to assist States parties in implementing their obligations under those instruments;
	7.	Invites the Chair of the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Special Rapporteur of the Human Rights Council on the rights of persons with disabilities to address and engage in interactive dialogues with the General Assembly annually, under the item entitled "Promotion and protection of human rights", as a way to enhance communication between the Assembly and the Committee;
	8.	Invites the President of the General Assembly to convene a high-level panel meeting late in 2016 to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the Convention, aimed at promoting its universalization;
	9.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its seventy-second session a report on the situation of women and girls with disabilities, in consultation with relevant United Nations agencies, including, inter alia, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, the United Nations Children's Fund and the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN-Women), taking into account the views of relevant stakeholders and using existing available materials, and to include a segment on the status of the Convention and the Optional Protocol thereto;
	10.	Also requests the Secretary-General to continue to ensure that the Office of the High Commissioner has adequate resources for the fulfilment of its tasks with respect to its work on the rights of persons with disabilities.

80th plenary meeting
17 December 2015

* Reissued for technical reasons on 7 April 2016.
1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2515, No. 44910.
2 Ibid., vol. 2518, No. 44910.
3 A/70/297.
4 A/69/284.
5 Resolution 68/3.
6 Resolution 69/2.
7 Resolution 69/283, annexes I and II.
8 Resolution 70/1.
[Start1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1544067E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/70/145<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------





3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/70/145*General AssemblyDistr.: General
12 February 2016Seventieth session
Agenda item 72 (a) 

15-16899* (E)
*1516899*Please recycle 

A/RES/70/145Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol thereto

Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol theretoA/RES/70/145

2/2

3/3

