[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 19 December 2008
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/63/414/Add.2)]
63/213.	Follow-up to and implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development 
of Small Island Developing States


	The General Assembly,
	Reaffirming the Declaration of Barbados1 and the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,2 adopted by the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, and recalling its resolution 49/122 of 19 December 1994 on the Global Conference,
	Reaffirming also the Mauritius Declaration3 and the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States ("Mauritius Strategy for Implementation"),4 adopted by the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States on 14 January 2005,
	Recalling its resolutions 59/311 of 14 July 2005, 60/194 of 22 December 2005, 61/196 of 20 December 2006 and 62/191 of 19 December 2007,
	Recalling also the 2005 World Summit Outcome,5 
	Reaffirming that the Commission on Sustainable Development is the primary intergovernmental forum for monitoring the implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action and the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation,
	Recalling the convening of one half-day session of the Intergovernmental Preparatory Meeting for the fifteenth session of the Commission on Sustainable Development, as called for by the General Assembly in its resolution 61/196, to discuss policy options for addressing the barriers and constraints facing small island developing States in the four thematic areas of the session, taking into account the review of the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation conducted during the fourteenth session of the Commission,
	Reaffirming that the adverse effects of climate change and sea-level rise present significant risks to the sustainable development of small island developing States, that the effects of climate change may threaten the very existence of some of them and that adaptation to the adverse effects of climate change and sea-level rise therefore remains a major priority for small island developing States,
	Recognizing the urgent need to increase the level of resources provided to small island developing States for the effective implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation,
	Underlining the importance of developing and strengthening national sustainable development strategies in small island developing States,
	Recalling its request to the Secretary-General to submit a report on actions taken to strengthen the Small Island Developing States Unit of the Department of Economic and Social Affairs of the Secretariat,
	Recalling also the decision to review progress made in addressing the vulnerabilities of small island developing States through the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation at the sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the follow-up to and implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation;6 
	2.	Also takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on actions taken to strengthen the Small Island Developing States Unit;7 
	3.	Welcomes the renewed commitment of the international community to the implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States;2
	4.	Urges Governments and all relevant international and regional organizations, United Nations funds and programmes, the specialized agencies and regional commissions, international financial institutions and the Global Environment Facility, as well as other intergovernmental organizations and major groups, to take timely action for the effective implementation of and follow-up to the Mauritius Declaration3 and the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation,4 including the further development and operationalization of concrete projects and programmes; 
	5.	Calls for the full and effective implementation of the commitments, programmes and targets adopted at the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States and, to this end, for the fulfilment of the provisions for the means of implementation, as contained in the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation, and encourages small island developing States and their development partners to continue to consult widely in order to develop further concrete projects and programmes for the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation;
	6.	Reaffirms the decision taken by the Commission on Sustainable Development at its sixteenth session that one day of its review sessions should be devoted exclusively to the review of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation, focusing on that year's thematic cluster, as well as on any new developments in the sustainable development efforts of small island developing States using existing modalities; 8
	7.	Invites the Commission to devote one half-day of its Intergovernmental Preparatory Meeting to discussing policy options for addressing the barriers and constraints facing small island developing States identified in the thematic cluster of each implementation cycle, taking into account the review conducted during the respective review session;
	8.	Encourages enhanced, closer and early consultation with small island developing States in the planning and coordination, as appropriate, of the activities of the Commission devoted to the review of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation, and emphasizes the importance of enhanced interaction between small island developing States and the relevant agencies of the United Nations system addressing issues concerning small island developing States;
	9.	Calls upon the international community to enhance support for the efforts of small island developing States to adapt to the adverse impacts of climate change, including through the provision of dedicated sources of financing, capacity-building and the transfer of appropriate technologies to address climate change;
	10.	Requests the relevant agencies of the United Nations system, within their respective mandates, to intensify efforts aimed at mainstreaming the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation in their work programmes and to establish a focal point for matters related to small island developing States within their respective secretariats to support coordinated implementation of the Programme of Action at the national, subregional, regional and global levels;
	11.	Calls upon the international community to enhance its support for the implementation of the programme of work on island biodiversity9 as a set of actions to address characteristics and problems that are specific to islands, adopted by the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity at its eighth meeting, in 2006;
	12.	Calls for continued support for the design and implementation of national sustainable development strategies in all small island developing States; 
	13.	Encourages the implementation of partnership initiatives, within the framework of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation, in support of the sustainable development of small island developing States;
	14.	Underlines the importance of providing the Small Island Developing States Unit with adequate, stable and predictable funding to facilitate the full and effective implementation of its mandates in accordance with the priority accorded to the Unit and in view of the demand for its services, in particular with respect to the provision of assistance and support to small island developing States;
	15.	Reiterates the importance of ensuring sufficient and sustainable staffing of the Small Island Developing States Unit so that it may undertake its broad range of mandated functions with a view to facilitating the full and effective implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation, and in this regard requests the Secretary-General to take the necessary actions;
	16.	Calls for the provision of new and additional voluntary resources to ensure the revitalization and sustainability of the Small Island Developing States Information Network;
	17.	Reaffirms its decision to review, at its sixty-fifth session, the progress made in addressing the vulnerabilities of small island developing States through the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation, decides to convene a two-day high-level review in September 2010 as a part of that session, and requests the Secretary-General to report to the Assembly at its sixty-fourth session on possible arrangements for the review;
	18.	Decides that the two-day high-level review should be preceded, where necessary, by national, subregional, regional and substantive preparations in a most effective, well-structured and broad participatory manner and that, for this purpose, the Department of Economic and Social Affairs of the Secretariat, through its Small Island Developing States Unit, the Office of the High Representative for the Least Developed Countries, Landlocked Developing Countries and Small Island Developing States and the relevant agencies of the United Nations system, including regional commissions, within their respective mandates and existing resources, should organize, facilitate and provide necessary support to the review process at the national, regional and international levels; and stresses that the review should provide the international community with an opportunity to conduct an assessment of the progress made, lessons learned and constraints encountered in the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation and agree on what needs to be done to further address the vulnerabilities of small island developing States;
	19.	Invites the small island developing States to consider at their relevant intergovernmental meetings, assessments of and relevant contributions to the review process;
	20.	Calls upon the international community to support the efforts to review progress made in addressing the vulnerabilities of small island developing States through the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation, including by facilitating the participation of small island developing States in review activities;
	21.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session on the follow-up to and implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation;
	22.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-fourth session, under the item entitled "Sustainable development", the sub-item entitled "Follow-up to and implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States".

72nd plenary meeting
19 December 2008
1 Report of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Bridgetown, Barbados, 25 April-6 May 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.94.I.18 and corrigenda), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
2 Ibid., annex II.
3 Report of the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Port Louis, Mauritius, 10-14 January 2005 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.05.II.A.4 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
4 Ibid., annex II.
5 See resolution 60/1.
6 A/63/296.
7 A/62/945.
8 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2008, Supplement No. 9 (E/2008/29), chap. I, sect. B, decision 16/2. 
9 UNEP/CBD/COP/8/31, annex I, decision VIII/1, annex.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0848357E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/63/213<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

1
    

1

United NationsA/RES/63/213General AssemblyDistr.: General
10 February 2009Sixty-third session
Agenda item 49 (b)

08-48357

A/RES/63/213

A/RES/63/213

4

5

