[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 19 July 2011
[without reference to a Main Committee (A/65/L.85 and Add.1)]
65/311.  Multilingualism


	The General Assembly,
	Recognizing that the United Nations pursues multilingualism as a means of promoting, protecting and preserving diversity of languages and cultures globally, 
	Recognizing also that genuine multilingualism promotes unity in diversity and international understanding, and recognizing the importance of the capacity to communicate to the peoples of the world in their own languages, including in formats accessible to persons with disabilities, 
	Stressing the need for strict observance of the resolutions and rules establishing language arrangements for the different bodies and organs of the United Nations, 
	Emphasizing the importance of multilingualism in the activities of the United Nations, including those linked to public relations and information, 
	Recalling its resolution 47/135 of 18 December 1992, by which it adopted the Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities, and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,1 in particular article 27 thereof, concerning the rights of persons belonging to ethnic, religious or linguistic minorities, 
	Recalling also its resolutions 2 (I) of 1 February 1946, 2480 B (XXIII) of 21 December 1968, 42/207 C of 11 December 1987, 50/11 of 2 November 1995, 52/23 of 25 November 1997, 54/64 of 6 December 1999, 56/262 of 15 February 2002, 59/309 of 22 June 2005, 63/306 of 9 September 2009, 64/266 of 21 May 2010, 65/107 B of 10 December 2010, 65/245 of 24 December 2010 and 65/247 of 24 December 2010, 
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;2 
	2.	Calls upon the Secretary-General to continue to develop the informal network of focal points in order to support his activities; 
	3.	Emphasizes the paramount importance of the equality of the six official languages of the United Nations; 
	4.	Underlines the need for full implementation of the resolutions establishing language arrangements for the official languages of the United Nations and the working languages of the Secretariat; 
	5.	Requests the Secretary-General to ensure that all language services are given equal treatment and are provided with equally favourable working conditions and resources, with a view to achieving maximum quality of those services, with full respect for the specificities of the six official languages, and in that regard recalls section D, paragraph 11, of its resolution 54/248 of 23 December 1999;
	6.	Reiterates its request to the Secretary-General to complete the task of uploading all important older United Nations documents onto the United Nations website in all six official languages on a priority basis, so that those archives are also available to Member States through that medium; 
	7.	Reiterates that all content-providing offices in the Secretariat should continue their efforts to translate into all official languages all English-language materials and databases posted on the United Nations website in the most practical, efficient and cost-effective manner; 
	8.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue to ensure, through the provision of documentation services and meeting and publishing services under conference management, including high-quality translation and interpretation, effective multilingual communication among representatives of Member States in intergovernmental organs and members of expert bodies of the United Nations equally in all the official languages of the United Nations; 
	9.	Stresses the importance of providing United Nations information, technical assistance and training materials, whenever possible, in the local languages of the beneficiary countries; 
	10.	Acknowledges the measures undertaken by the Secretary-General, in accordance with its resolutions, to address the issue of the replacement of retiring staff in the language services, and requests the Secretary-General to maintain and intensify those efforts, including through the strengthening of cooperation with institutions that train language specialists to meet the need in the six official languages of the United Nations; 
	11.	Notes with satisfaction the willingness of the Secretariat to encourage staff members, in meetings with interpretation services, to use any of the six official languages of which they have a command; 
	12.	Reiterates its request to the Secretary-General to ensure that the rules concerning the simultaneous distribution of documents in all six official languages are strictly respected as regards both the distribution of printed copies and the posting of parliamentary documentation on the Official Document System and the United Nations website, in keeping with section III, paragraph 5, of its resolution 55/222 of 23 December 2000; 
	13.	Emphasizes the importance of:
	(a)	Making appropriate use of all the official languages of the United Nations in all the activities of the Department of Public Information of the Secretariat, with the aim of eliminating the disparity between the use of English and the use of the five other official languages;
	(b)	Ensuring the full and equitable treatment of all the official languages of the United Nations in all the activities of the Department of Public Information;
and, in this regard, reaffirms its request to the Secretary-General to ensure that the Department has appropriate staffing capacity in all the official languages of the United Nations to undertake all its activities; 
	14.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue his efforts to ensure that, in accordance with their income-generating nature, guided tours at United Nations Headquarters are consistently available, in particular, in all six official languages of the United Nations; 
	15.	Encourages the Secretary-General to strengthen his efforts to develop and maintain multilingual United Nations websites, from within existing resources, including efforts to keep the Secretary-General's web page up to date in all the official languages of the United Nations; 
	16.	Reaffirms the need to achieve full parity among the six official languages on United Nations websites; 
	17.	Also reaffirms that the United Nations website is an essential tool for Member States, the media, educational institutions, the general public and 
non-governmental organizations, and reiterates the continued need for efforts by the Department of Public Information to maintain and improve it; 
	18.	Further reaffirms its request to the Secretary-General to ensure, while maintaining an up-to-date and accurate website, the adequate distribution of financial and human resources within the Department of Public Information allocated to the United Nations website among all official languages, with full respect for the specificities of the six official languages; 
	19.	Notes with concern that the multilingual development and enrichment of the United Nations website in several official languages has improved at a much slower rate than expected, and in this regard requests the Department of Public Information, in coordination with content-providing offices, to improve the actions taken to achieve parity among the six official languages on the United Nations website, in particular by expediting the filling of current vacant posts in some sections; 
	20.	Requests the Department of Public Information, in cooperation with the Office of Information and Communications Technology of the Secretariat, to continue its efforts to ensure that technological infrastructures and supportive applications fully support Latin, non-Latin and bidirectional scripts in order to enhance the equality of all official languages on the United Nations website; 
	21.	Welcomes the cooperative arrangements undertaken by the Department of Public Information with academic institutions in order to increase the number of web pages available in some official languages, and requests the Secretary-General, in coordination with content-providing offices, to extend these cooperative arrangements, in a cost-effective manner, to all the official languages of the United Nations, bearing in mind the necessity of adherence to United Nations standards and guidelines; 
	22.	Urges the Secretariat to keep iSeek up to date in the two working languages of the Secretariat, to continue its efforts to implement iSeek at all duty stations and to develop and implement cost-neutral measures to provide Member States with secure access to the information currently accessible only on the Intranet of the Secretariat; 
	23.	Notes with appreciation the work carried out by the United Nations information centres, including the United Nations Regional Information Centre, in favour of the publication of United Nations information materials and the translation of important documents into languages other than the official languages of the United Nations, with a view to reaching the widest possible audience and extending the United Nations message to all corners of the world in order to strengthen international support for the activities of the Organization, and encourages United Nations information centres to continue their multilingual activities in the interactive and proactive aspects of their work, especially by arranging seminars and debates to further the spread of information and the understanding and exchange of views regarding United Nations activities at the local level; 
	24.	Recalls its resolution 65/247, in particular paragraphs 26 and 54 (f) thereof, in which it reaffirmed the need to respect the equality of the two working languages of the Secretariat, reaffirmed the use of additional working languages in specific duty stations, as mandated, and, in that regard, requested the Secretary-General to ensure that vacancy announcements specified the need for either of the working languages of the Secretariat, unless the functions of the post required a specific working language; 
	25.	Also recalls section II, paragraph 17, of its resolution 61/244 of 
22 December 2006, in which it acknowledged that the interaction of the United Nations with the local population in the field was essential and that language skills constituted an important element of the selection and training processes and therefore affirmed that a good command of the official language(s) spoken in the country of residence should be taken into account as an additional asset during those processes; 
	26.	Further recalls its resolution 64/266, in which it endorsed the proposals, recommendations and conclusions of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations;3
	27.	Takes note of section II.D.1 of the report of the Secretary-General,2 requests the Secretary-General to continue his ongoing efforts in this regard, and further recalls its resolution 64/266 without prejudice to Article 101 of the Charter of the United Nations; 
	28.	Urges the Secretariat to translate all peacekeeping training documents into the six official languages of the United Nations, within existing resources, to ensure that all Member States can use them; 
	29.	Stresses that the employment of staff shall continue to be carried out in strict accordance with Article 101 of the Charter and in line with the relevant provisions of General Assembly resolutions; 
	30.	Invites the Secretary-General to ensure compliance with the requirement for United Nations staff to have the ability to use one of the working languages of the Secretariat, and encourages the Secretary-General to further implement resolution 2480 B (XXIII); 
	31.	Also invites the Secretary-General to take the appropriate measures to consider the linguistic specificities mentioned in vacancy announcements during the composition of interview panels for the employment of United Nations staff; 
	32.	Stresses that the promotion of staff in the Professional and higher categories shall be carried out in strict accordance with Article 101 of the Charter and in line with the provisions of resolution 2480 B (XXIII) and the relevant provisions of resolution 55/258 of 14 June 2001; 
	33.	Encourages United Nations staff members to continue actively to use existing training facilities to acquire and enhance their proficiency in one or more of the official languages of the United Nations; 
	34.	Notes with interest the cost-neutral initiatives of the Secretariat to produce publications in several languages, increase the volume of translated publications and encourage a multilingual acquisition policy for the libraries of the United Nations, and requests the Secretariat to continue those initiatives; 
	35.	Reaffirms that linguistic diversity is an important element of cultural diversity, stresses the importance of the full and effective implementation of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions,4 which entered into force on 18 March 2007, and recalls the Recommendation concerning the Promotion and Use of Multilingualism and Universal Access to Cyberspace of 15 October 2003;5
	36.	Welcomes the activities of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Member States, the entities of the United Nations system and all other participating bodies aimed at fostering respect for and the promotion and protection of all languages, in particular endangered ones, linguistic diversity and multilingualism; 
	37.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session a comprehensive report on the full implementation of its resolutions on multilingualism; 
	38.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-seventh session the item entitled "Multilingualism". 

109th plenary meeting
19 July 2011
1 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
2 A/65/488.
3 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 19 (A/64/19).
4 United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Records of the General Conference, Thirty-third Session, Paris, 3-21 October 2005, vol. 1 and corrigenda: Resolutions, chap. V, resolution 41.
5 United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Records of the General Conference, Thirty-second Session, Paris, 29 September-17 October 2003, vol. 1: Resolutions, chap. IV, recommendation 41.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1142082E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/65/311<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/65/311General AssemblyDistr.: General
25 August 2011Sixty-fifth session
Agenda item 121

11-42082
*1042082*

A/RES/65/311

A/RES/65/311

4

5

