[hj1]UNITED									A
NATIONS



             General Assembly


                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/54/137
                                                                          10 February 2000

                                                                          



Fifty-fourth session
Agenda item 109


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/54/598 and Corr.1 and 2)]


54/137.  Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women

    The General Assembly,

    Recalling its resolution 53/118 of 9 December 1998,

    Bearing in mind that one of the purposes of the United Nations, as stated in Articles 1 and 55 of the Charter, is to promote universal respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction of any kind, including distinction as to sex,

    Affirming that women and men should participate equally in social, economic and political development, should contribute equally to such development and should share equally in improved conditions of life,

    Recalling the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993,1 in which the Conference reaffirmed that the human rights of women and the girl child were an inalienable, integral and indivisible part of universal human rights,


    Acknowledging the need for a comprehensive and integrated approach to the promotion and protection of the human rights of women, which includes the integration of the human rights of women into the mainstream of United Nations activities system-wide, and, in this context, calling for the implementation of agreed conclusions 1998/2 of 28 July 1998 of the Economic and Social Council,2

    Noting that 1999 is the twentieth anniversary of the adoption of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,3 welcoming the progress made in its implementation, but concerned about the remaining challenges,

    Bearing in mind its resolution 54/4 of 6 October 1999, by which it adopted and opened for signature, ratification and accession the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,

    Bearing in mind also the recommendation of the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women that national reports include information on the implementation of the Platform for Action of the Fourth World Conference on Women,4

    Welcoming the growing number of States parties to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, which now stands at one hundred sixty-five,

    Noting the elaboration and adoption by the Committee, at its twentieth session, of general recommendation 24 on article 12 of the Convention, on women and health,5

    Having considered the report of the Committee on its twentieth and twenty-first sessions,6

    Expressing concern at the great number of reports that are overdue and that continue to be overdue, in particular initial reports, which constitutes an obstacle to the full implementation of the Convention,

    1.	Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General on the status of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women;7

    2.	Urges all States that have not yet ratified or acceded to the Convention to do so as soon as possible, so that universal ratification of the Convention can be achieved by the year 2000;

    3.	Emphasizes the importance of full compliance by States parties with their obligations under the Convention;
    
    4.	Notes with appreciation the adoption by the General Assembly, by resolution 54/4, of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women;

    5.	Notes that some States parties have modified their reservations, expresses satisfaction that some reservations have been withdrawn, and urges States to limit the extent of any reservations they lodge to the Convention, to formulate any such reservations as precisely and as narrowly as possible, to ensure that no reservations are incompatible with the object and purpose of the Convention or otherwise incompatible with international treaty law, to review their reservations regularly with a view to withdrawing them and to withdraw reservations that are contrary to the object and purpose of the Convention or that are otherwise incompatible with international treaty law;

    6.	Urges States parties to the Convention to make every possible effort to submit their reports on the implementation of the Convention in accordance with article 18 thereof and with the guidelines provided by the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women and to cooperate fully with the Committee in the presentation of their reports;

    7.	Encourages the Secretariat to extend further technical assistance to States parties, upon their request, in the preparation of reports, in particular initial reports, and invites Governments to contribute to these efforts;

    8.	Commends the Committee on its contributions to the effective implementation of the Convention;

    9.	Urges States parties to the Convention to take appropriate measures so that acceptance of the amendment to article 20, paragraph 1, of the Convention by a two-thirds majority of States parties can be reached as soon as possible in order for the amendment to enter into force;

    10.	Expresses its appreciation for the additional meeting time allowing the Committee to hold two sessions annually, each of three weeks' duration, preceded by a pre-session working group of the Committee;

    11.	Emphasizes the need to ensure adequate financing and staff support for the effective functioning of the Committee, including for the dissemination of information;

    12.	Invites Governments, agencies and organizations of the United Nations system and intergovernmental as well as non-governmental organizations to disseminate the Convention and the Optional Protocol thereto;

    13.	Encourages all relevant entities of the United Nations system, within their mandates, to continue to assist States parties, upon their request, in implementing the Convention and, in this regard, to pay attention to the concluding comments as well as the general recommendations of the Committee;

    14.	Encourages all relevant parts of the United Nations system to continue to build women's knowledge and understanding of and capacity to utilize human rights instruments, in particular the Convention and the Optional Protocol thereto;

    15.	Welcomes the submission of reports by the specialized agencies at the invitation of the Committee on the implementation of the Convention in areas falling within the scope of their activities and the contribution of non-governmental organizations to the work of the Committee, and encourages those agencies to continue their submission of reports;
    
    16.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session a report on the status of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the implementation of the present resolution.


	83rd plenary meeting
	17 December 1999
1 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
2 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-third Session, Supplement No. 3 and corrigendum (A/53/3 and Corr.1), chap. VI, para. 3.
3 Resolution 34/180, annex.
4 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
5 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 38 (A/54/38/Rev.1), part one, chap. I, sect. A.
6 Ibid., parts one and two.
7 A/54/224 and Corr.1.
[hj1]
<<ODS JOB NO>>N0027145E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/54/137<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------


00 27145	/...


00 27145	/...

A/RES/53/
Page 


	A/RES/54/137
	Page 


A/RES/53/
Page 



	/...


	/...

A/RES/54/137
Page 




	A/RES/54/137
	Page 








