[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 24 June 2010
[on the report of the Fifth Committee (A/64/820)]
64/269.	Cross-cutting issues


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 49/233 A of 23 December 1994, 49/233 B of 31 March 1995, 51/218 E of 17 June 1997, 57/290 B of 18 June 2003, 58/315 of 1 July 2004, 59/296 of 22 June 2005, 60/266 of 30 June 2006 and 61/276 and 61/279 of 29 June 2007,
	Having considered the reports of the Secretary-General on the overview of the financing of the United Nations peacekeeping operations,1 on national professional officers,2 on the welfare and recreation needs of all categories of personnel and detailed implications,3 on the progress of training in peacekeeping,4 on the comprehensive review of the compensation of death and disability benefits to military contingents, formed police units, military observers and civilian police officers,5 on the status of cases for death and disability for formed police units, military contingents, civilian police officers and military observers processed and currently in process, and comprehensive review of the administrative and payment arrangement for such cases,6 on special measures for protection from sexual exploitation and sexual abuse,7 on the comprehensive report of conduct and discipline including full justification of all posts8 and on peacekeeping best practices,9 the report on the activities of the Office of Internal Oversight Services for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2007,10 as well as the note by the Secretary-General thereon,11 the report of the Office of Internal Oversight Services on peacekeeping operations12 and the related reports of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions,13
	Having also considered the reports of the Secretary-General on the overview of the financing of the United Nations peacekeeping operations,14 on the global field support strategy15 and on special measures for protection from sexual exploitation and sexual abuse,16 the report of the Office of Internal Oversight Services on peacekeeping operations,17 as well as the related report of the Advisory Committee,18

General
	1.	Reaffirms its resolutions 57/290 B, 59/296, 60/266 and 61/276, and requests the Secretary-General to ensure the full implementation of their relevant provisions;
	2.	Appreciates the efforts of all peacekeeping personnel in the field and at Headquarters;
	3.	Takes note of the reports of the Secretary-General on the overview of the financing of the United Nations peacekeeping operations,14 the global field support strategy15 and special measures for protection from sexual exploitation and sexual abuse,16 as well as the related report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions;18
	4.	Also takes note of the report of the Office of Internal Oversight Services on peacekeeping operations;17
	5.	Endorses the conclusions and recommendations contained in the report of the Advisory Committee, subject to the provisions of the present resolution, and requests the Secretary-General to ensure their full implementation;

I
Budget presentation and financial management
	1.	Reaffirms that the Fifth Committee is the appropriate Main Committee of the General Assembly entrusted with responsibilities for administrative and budgetary matters;
	2.	Takes note of paragraph 3 of the report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions,18 and stresses that the General Assembly has the sole authority to approve the implementation of recommendations of the Advisory Committee pertaining to peacekeeping;
	3.	Reaffirms paragraphs 21 to 25 of its resolution 64/259 of 29 March 2010;
	4.	Reiterates that the delegation of authority on the part of the Secretary-General should be in order to facilitate the better management of the Organization, but stresses that the overall responsibility for management of the Organization rests with the Secretary-General as the Chief Administrative Officer;
	5.	Affirms the need for the Secretary-General to ensure that the delegation of authority to the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and the Department of Field Support and field missions is in strict compliance with relevant resolutions and decisions, as well as relevant rules and procedures of the General Assembly on this matter;
	6.	Stresses that heads of departments report to and are accountable to the Secretary-General;
	7.	Reiterates the importance of strengthened accountability in the Organization and of ensuring greater accountability of the Secretary-General to Member States, inter alia, for the effective and efficient implementation of legislative mandates and the use of human and financial resources;
	8.	Takes note of paragraphs 12 and 14 of the report of the Advisory Committee, and emphasizes that all field missions shall be provided with adequate resources for the effective and efficient discharge of their respective mandates and that the transition of peacekeeping operations to peacebuilding may entail a change in resource requirements;
	9.	Welcomes the improvements that have been made in the timeliness and quality of budget proposals for peacekeeping operations, and encourages the Secretary-General to further intensify his efforts to that end through enhanced coordination and cooperation among missions, the Department of Field Support, the Department of Peacekeeping Operations, the Department of Management and the Department for General Assembly and Conference Management of the Secretariat;
	10.	Reaffirms that budget submissions should reflect management improvements and efficiency gains to be achieved and should present future strategies in that regard;
	11.	Stresses the importance of further steps by the Secretary-General towards improving budget presentations and making more accurate forecasts;
	12.	Appreciates the improved presentation by the Secretary-General of efficiency gains in peacekeeping budgets;
	13.	Requests the Secretary-General to intensify his efforts to achieve economies of scale within and between field missions without undermining their operational requirements and the implementation of their respective mandates and to report thereon in the context of the overview report;
	14.	Also requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at the main part of its sixty-fifth session on measures to address the impact of exchange rate fluctuations in the presentation of peacekeeping budgets and the management of peacekeeping accounts;
	15.	Notes with concern the significant amount of prior-period obligations cancelled by several missions, and reiterates its request that the Secretary-General improve control over obligations;

II
Human resources
	1.	Reaffirms section VII of its resolution 61/276, and its resolution 63/250 of 24 December 2008;
	2.	Decides to revert to the establishment of minimum welfare and recreation standards, as described in paragraphs 62 to 82 of the report of the Secretary-General,3 at the second part of its resumed sixty-fifth session;
	3.	Also decides to increase the level of compensation for death for all categories of uniformed personnel to 70,000 United States dollars;
	4.	Expresses deep concern about delays in the settlement of claims in respect of death and disability, and requests the Secretary-General to take urgent measures to eliminate the existing backlog of death and disability claims pending for more than three months and to report on the progress made to the General Assembly at the second part of its resumed sixty-fifth session;
	5.	Reiterates its request to the Secretary-General to settle death and disability claims as soon as possible, but not later than three months from the date of submission of a claim;
	6.	Reaffirms its resolution 52/177 of 18 December 1997, and requests the Secretary-General to ensure that, accordingly, all uniformed personnel deployed in peacekeeping operations shall continue to be eligible for death and disability compensation during the entire period of their deployment;

III
Operational requirements
	1.	Notes that fuel is a major item of expenditure and that its management is vulnerable to serious risk of fraud and abuse;
	2.	Reiterates its request to the Secretary-General to make the fullest possible use of facilities and equipment at the United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy, in order to minimize the costs of procurement for field missions;
	3.	Notes the increase in aircraft rental costs, particularly for rotary wing aircraft, and requests the Secretary-General to continue his efforts to achieve economies of scale and efficiencies in air operations through better planning and optimal use of available resources without undermining safety and operational requirements and rotation and troop deployment cycles;
	4.	Underlines the need for the United Nations to improve management of its ground transportation in order to achieve maximum operational efficiency, and urges the Secretary-General to accelerate his efforts in this regard;
	5.	Recalls paragraph 72 of the report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions,18 and requests the Secretary-General to provide detailed information on the measures undertaken to mitigate the environmental impact of peacekeeping missions in the context of his next overview report;
	6.	Reaffirms the provisions of section XVIII of its resolution 61/276;
	7.	Stresses the need for expedited and flexible procedures for the implementation of quick-impact projects with a view to ensuring the fulfilment of the mandate established in section XVIII of resolution 61/276;

IV
Conduct and discipline
	1.	Recognizes the shared responsibility, within their respective competencies, of United Nations organizations and agencies and troop-contributing countries to ensure that all personnel are held accountable for sexual exploitation and related offences committed while serving in humanitarian and peacekeeping operations;
	2.	Underlines the great importance it attaches to the elimination of misconduct, including sexual exploitation and sexual abuse, calls for full implementation of the United Nations zero-tolerance policy, stresses the importance of the measures put in place in this regard, and requests the Secretary-General to strengthen efforts for the prevention, prompt investigation, enforcement of disciplinary action and assistance to victims of sexual exploitation and abuse;
	3.	Requests the Secretary-General to take all necessary measures to prevent unsubstantiated allegations of misconduct from damaging the credibility of any United Nations peacekeeping operation and to ensure that appropriate steps are taken to maintain and restore the image and credibility of any peacekeeping mission, troop-contributing country or United Nations peacekeeping personnel in cases where allegations of misconduct are ultimately legally unproven;
	4.	Strongly urges Member States to take all appropriate measures to ensure that crimes by United Nations officials and experts on mission do not go unpunished and that the perpetrators of such crimes are brought to justice;

V
Other
	Notes with concern the status of liabilities and reimbursements to troop-contributing and police-contributing countries for their troops, formed police units, contingent-owned equipment and self-sustainment, emphasizes the importance of the full settlement of those liabilities, and in this regard urges all Member States to pay their assessed contributions on time, in full and without conditions;

VI
Global field support strategy
	Reaffirming the general principles underlying the financing of United Nations peacekeeping operations, as stated in General Assembly resolutions 1874 (S-IV) of 27 June 1963, 3101 (XXVIII) of 11 December 1973 and 55/235 of 23 December 2000,
	1.	Recognizes the challenges faced by the Organization in providing logistical, administrative and information and communications technology support for peacekeeping operations, and expresses its appreciation for the efforts made by the Secretary-General to present an integrated approach to enable more timely mission start-up and deployment and to improve quality, efficiency and economy of scale in the delivery of services to field missions;
	2.	Also recognizes the need for timely mission start-up and deployment and to improve the quality and effectiveness of service delivery to field missions;
	3.	Notes with interest the overall concept of the global field support strategy, which outlines a broad and useful framework for improving the efficiency and effectiveness of service delivery to field missions and the better use of resources, including through the provision of common services;
	4.	Underlines the central role of Headquarters in strategic policymaking and oversight of relevant rules, regulations and procedures while seeking efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of support to field missions;
	5.	Emphasizes the importance of preserving unity of command in missions at all levels as well as coherence in policy and strategy and clear command structures in the field, up to and including at Headquarters;
	6.	Also emphasizes the need for the Secretary-General to closely consult with Member States, in particular troop-contributing countries, in the implementation of the global field support strategy in the light of the decisions taken in the present resolution;
	7.	Further emphasizes that the implementation of the global field support strategy will improve the operational effectiveness of field missions;
	8.	Decides that, if a decision of the Security Council relating to the start-up phase or expansion phase of peacekeeping operations results in the need for expenditure, the Secretary-General is authorized, with the prior concurrence of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions, to enter into commitments up to 100 million dollars from the available balance of the Peacekeeping Reserve Fund and that the cumulative total of outstanding commitment authority in respect of the start-up or expansion phase of peacekeeping operations should not exceed the total level of the Peacekeeping Reserve Fund at any one time, and accordingly decides to amend the Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nations19 by substituting the words "the balance of the Peacekeeping Reserve Fund, and not to exceed 100 million United States dollars" for the words "50 million United States dollars" in financial regulation 4.6 and by substituting the words "100 million dollars" for the words "50 million dollars" in financial regulation 4.8;
	9.	Also decides that, if a decision of the Security Council relating to the start-up phase or expansion phase of peacekeeping operations results in the need for expenditure, the Secretary-General is authorized, with the prior concurrence of the Advisory Committee, to enter into commitments up to 50 million dollars of the available balance of the stores available from the Organization's strategic deployment stocks and draw upon these, with the drawings from the stocks to be replenished when the initial appropriation is received;
	10.	Affirms the authority of the Fifth Committee to fully review the administrative structures, the staffing levels, including the number and level of posts established through the exercise of commitment authority, at the time of the presentation of the budget, with a view to making adjustments as necessary;
	11.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit proposals for a standardized funding model for the first year of peacekeeping operations for consideration by the General Assembly at the second part of its resumed sixty-fifth session, on the understanding that the model should not in any way derogate from the legislative role of the Assembly in the consideration and approval of budgets;
	12.	Notes the intention of the Secretary-General that global service packages will be configured and managed from the Global Service Centre at Brindisi and that regional service centres could in turn develop region-specific service packages;
	13.	Recalls its resolution 64/266 of 21 May 2010 and paragraph 101 of the report of the Advisory Committee,18 and requests the Secretary-General, in close consultation with troop-contributing countries, to further develop predefined modules and service packages to improve the quality and expedite the delivery of services to field missions, including civilian response capabilities;
	14.	Recognizes that delivering modularized service packages at the United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi is aimed at enhancing the operational effectiveness of field missions, and stresses the importance of proceeding in this regard;
	15.	Requests the Secretary-General to further develop specific proposals in consultation with Member States, in particular troop-contributing countries, on functions and resources to be transferred to the Global Service Centre, in the context of the budget of the United Nations Logistics Base, for the consideration of the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session, addressing the issues raised in paragraphs 108 to 110 of the report of the Advisory Committee, without prejudice to a decision of the Assembly at its sixty-fifth session;
	16.	Stresses that functions primarily involving interactions with Member States, particularly troop-contributing countries, will continue to be located at Headquarters;
	17.	Reaffirms its resolutions 60/121 A of 8 December 2005, 61/281 of 29 June 2007, 62/256 of 20 June 2008 and 63/291 of 30 June 2009, and decides to establish a regional service centre at the logistics hub at Entebbe, Uganda, with the functions proposed by the Secretary-General in his report;15
	18.	Recalls paragraphs 119 and 120 of the report of the Advisory Committee and paragraph 79 of the report of the Secretary-General, and requests the Secretary-General to ensure the attainment of these projected benefits and to further identify subsequent annual benefits of the Regional Service Centre at Entebbe;
	19.	Notes that the concentration of missions in Central and Eastern Africa provides an opportunity to optimize the use of air assets through, inter alia, the establishment of a transportation and movements integrated control centre responsible for the planning and movement of personnel and cargo, and requests the Secretary-General to further develop and operationalize the concept in close consultation with Member States, in particular troop-contributing countries;
	20.	Recalls paragraphs 55 and 142 of the report of the Advisory Committee, and stresses that efforts to explore possibilities for economies and efficiencies in air operations should not undermine safety and operational requirements and rotation and troop deployment cycles;
	21.	Stresses the accountability and ultimate responsibility of Headquarters for the acquisition of air services and the provision of safety standards, bearing in mind current delegations of authority for procurement, without prejudice to any future decision that the General Assembly may take on this issue;
	22.	Also stresses that the establishment of a regional service centre must respect the principle of separate financial arrangements for missions and that its resources and the volume of its activities are scalable, reflecting the start-up, expansion, drawdown or closure of the field missions that it serves;
	23.	Requests the Secretary-General, when developing budget proposals for the missions to be served by a regional service centre, to reflect the posts, positions and related costs of a regional service centre in the respective budget proposals, including the results-based budgeting framework;
	24.	Stresses that the staffing of the global and regional service centres will be achieved mainly through redeployments from the Department of Field Support at Headquarters and from field missions;
	25.	Requests the Secretary-General to present more than one option for any future proposed regional service centre for the consideration and approval of the General Assembly;
	26.	Decides that the Regional Service Centre at Entebbe will be a family duty station, effective 1 July 2011, contingent on and without prejudice to any future decision taken by the General Assembly on the designation of duty stations as well as the consideration of criteria, including financial and administrative, for designating duty stations as family or non-family;
	27.	Requests the Secretary-General to provide an update on the implementation of the integrated human resources management framework to the General Assembly during its consideration of human resources management issues at its sixty-fifth session;
	28.	Also requests the Secretary-General, in consistency with the objectives of the global field support strategy, to take into account the risks involved in using single source or multifunctional contracts in developing further proposals related to logistics modules;
	29.	Recalls paragraph 159 of the report of the Advisory Committee, and in this regard requests the Secretary-General to submit an annual progress report on the implementation of the global field support strategy;
	30.	Requests the Secretary-General to entrust the Office of Internal Oversight Services with conducting an audit of the implementation of the global field support strategy and to submit a report thereon to the General Assembly at the second part of its resumed sixty-sixth session.

101st plenary meeting
24 June 2010
1 A/62/727 and A/63/696.
2 A/62/762.
3 A/63/675 and Corr.1.
4 A/63/680.
5 A/63/550.
6 A/62/805 and Corr.1.
7 A/63/720.
8 A/62/758.
9 A/62/593 and Corr.1.
10 A/62/281 (Part II).
11 A/62/281 (Part II)/Add.1.
12 A/63/302 (Part II).
13 A/62/781, and A/63/746, sects. II and IV.
14 A/64/643.
15 A/64/633.
16 A/64/669.
17 A/64/326 (Part II).
18 A/64/660.
19 ST/SGB/2003/7.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0947797E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/64/269<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/64/269General AssemblyDistr.: General
3 August 2010Sixty-fourth session
Agenda item 146

09-47797
*0947797*

A/RES/64/269

A/RES/64/269

8

7

