[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly

[on the report of the Third Committee (A/55/595 and Corr.1 and 2)]
55/68.	Elimination of all forms of violence against women, including crimes identified in the outcome document of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly, entitled "Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the twenty-first century"


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, which, inter alia, calls for international cooperation in promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion,
	Recalling also the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,1 the Declaration on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women,2 the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women,3 the United Nations Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,4 the Beijing Declaration5 and Platform for Action6 adopted by the Fourth World Conference on Women, the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted on 25 June 1993 by the World Conference on Human Rights,7 and the United Nations Millennium Declaration,8
	Reaffirming the obligations of all States to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, as enunciated in the Charter, and reaffirming also the obligations of States parties under international human rights instruments, in particular the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,9 the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,9 the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,10 the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,11 the Convention on the Rights of the Child,12 the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment13 and the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families,14
	Reaffirming also the outcome document of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly, entitled "Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the twenty-first century",15 
	Reaffirming further the call for the elimination of violence against women and girls, especially all forms of commercial sexual exploitation as well as economic exploitation, including trafficking in women and children, female infanticide, crimes committed in the name of honour, crimes committed in the name of passion, racially motivated crimes, the abduction and sale of children, dowry-related violence and deaths, acid attacks and harmful traditional or customary practices, such as female genital mutilation and early and forced marriages,
	Stressing the importance of the empowerment of women as a tool to eliminate all forms of violence against women, including crimes identified in the outcome document of the twenty-third special session,
	1.	Expresses deep concern at the persistence of various forms of violence and crimes against women in all parts of the world, especially all forms of commercial sexual exploitation as well as economic exploitation, including trafficking in women and children, female infanticide, crimes committed in the name of honour, crimes committed in the name of passion, racially motivated crimes, the abduction and sale of children, dowry-related violence and deaths, acid attacks and harmful traditional or customary practices, such as female genital mutilation and early and forced marriages;
	2.	Stresses that all forms of violence against women, including crimes identified in the outcome document of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly,15 are obstacles to the advancement and empowerment of women, and reaffirms that violence against women both violates and impairs or nullifies the enjoyment by women of their human rights and fundamental freedoms;
	3.	Also stresses the need to treat all forms of violence against women and girls of all ages as a criminal offence punishable by law, including violence based on all forms of discrimination;
	4.	Reaffirms that there is increased awareness of and commitment to preventing and combating violence against women, including crimes identified in the outcome document of the twenty-third special session, and in this context welcomes various legal, administrative and other measures taken by Governments for their prevention and elimination, and calls for high priority to be attached to the further strengthening of such measures;
	5.	Urges Member States to strengthen awareness and preventive measures for the elimination of all forms of violence against women, whether occurring in public or private life, by encouraging and supporting public campaigns to enhance awareness about the unacceptability and the social costs of violence against women, inter alia, through educational and media campaigns in cooperation with educators, community leaders and the electronic and print media;
	6.	Expresses its appreciation of the work being done by non-governmental organizations, including women's organizations, community-based organizations and individuals, in raising awareness about the economic, social and psychological costs of all forms of violence against women, including crimes identified in the outcome document of the twenty-third special session, and in this regard encourages Governments to continue their support to the work of the non-governmental organizations in addressing this issue;
	7.	Calls upon States to fulfil their obligations under the relevant human rights instruments and implement the Beijing Platform for Action6 as well as the outcome document of the twenty-third special session;
	8.	Encourages States parties to include in their reports to the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women and other relevant treaty bodies, wherever possible, sex-disaggregated data and information on measures taken or initiated to eliminate all forms of violence against women, including crimes identified in the outcome document of the twenty-third special session;
	9.	Urges relevant entities of the United Nations system, within their mandates, to assist countries, upon their request, in their efforts aimed at preventing and eliminating all forms of violence against women, including crimes identified in the outcome document of the twenty-third special session, and in this regard expresses its appreciation of the work being done by the United Nations Population Fund, the United Nations Children's Fund and the United Nations Development Fund for Women and other relevant funds and programmes aimed at preventing and eliminating violence against women and girls;
	10.	Invites the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on violence against women, its causes and consequences, to further devote equal attention to all forms of violence against women, including crimes identified in the outcome document of the twenty-third special session, in her work and her reports, within her mandate, to the Commission on Human Rights and the General Assembly;
	11.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit a comprehensive report on this matter to the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session.

81st plenary meeting
4 December 2000
1 Resolution 217 A (III).
2 See resolution 2263 (XXII).
3 See resolution 48/104.
4 See resolution 1904 (XVIII).
5 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
6 Ibid., annex II.
7 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
8 See resolution 55/2.
9 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
10 Resolution 34/180, annex.
11 Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.
12 Resolution 44/25, annex.
13 Resolution 39/46, annex.
14 Resolution 45/158, annex.
15 Resolution S-23/3, annex.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0056347E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/55/68<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

A/RES/55/68


A/RES/55/68


2
    

3
    

United NationsA/RES/55/68General AssemblyDistr.: General
31 January 2001Fifty-fifth session
Agenda item 107

00 56347

