<<ODS JOB NO>>N9876117E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/52/164<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>

UNITED									A
NATIONS


					General Assembly


																		Distr.
																		GENERAL

																		A/RES/52/164
																		9 January 1998






Fifty-second session
Agenda item 152


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Sixth Committee (A/52/653)]


52/164.International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings

	The General Assembly,

	Recalling its resolution 49/60 of 9 December 1994, by which it adopted the Declaration on Measures to Eliminate International Terrorism, and its resolution 51/210 of 17 December 1996,

	Having considered the text of the draft convention for the suppression of terrorist bombings prepared by the Ad Hoc Committee established by General Assembly resolution 51/210 of 17 December 19961 and the Working Group of the Sixth Committee,2

	1.	Adopts the International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings annexed to the present resolution, and decides to open it for signature at United Nations Headquarters in New York from 12 January 1998 until 31 December 1999;

	2.	Urges all States to sign and ratify, accept or approve or accede to the Convention.

	72nd plenary meeting
	15 December 1997


	ANNEX

	International Convention for the Suppression
	of Terrorist Bombings

	The States Parties to this Convention,

	Having in mind the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations concerning the maintenance of international peace and security and the promotion of good-neighbourliness and friendly relations and cooperation among States,

	Deeply concerned about the worldwide escalation of acts of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations,

	Recalling the Declaration on the Occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the United Nations of 24 October 1995,3

	Recalling also the Declaration on Measures to Eliminate International Terrorism, annexed to General Assembly resolution 49/60 of 9 December 1994, in which, inter alia, "the States Members of the United Nations solemnly reaffirm their unequivocal condemnation of all acts, methods and practices of terrorism as criminal and unjustifiable, wherever and by whomever committed, including those which jeopardize the friendly relations among States and peoples and threaten the territorial integrity and security of States",

	Noting that the Declaration also encouraged States "to review urgently the scope of the existing international legal provisions on the prevention, repression and elimination of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, with the aim of ensuring that there is a comprehensive legal framework covering all aspects of the matter",

	Recalling General Assembly resolution 51/210 of 17 December 1996 and the Declaration to Supplement the 1994 Declaration on Measures to Eliminate International Terrorism annexed thereto, 

	Noting that terrorist attacks by means of explosives or other lethal devices have become increasingly widespread,

	Noting also that existing multilateral legal provisions do not adequately address these attacks,

	Being convinced of the urgent need to enhance international cooperation between States in devising and adopting effective and practical measures for the prevention of such acts of terrorism and for the prosecution and punishment of their perpetrators,

	Considering that the occurrence of such acts is a matter of grave concern to the international community as a whole,

	Noting that the activities of military forces of States are governed by rules of international law outside the framework of this Convention and that the exclusion of certain actions from the coverage of this Convention does not condone or make lawful otherwise unlawful acts, or preclude prosecution under other laws,

	Have agreed as follows:


	Article 1

	For the purposes of this Convention:

	1.	"State or government facility" includes any permanent or temporary facility or conveyance that is used or occupied by representatives of a State, members of Government, the legislature or the judiciary or by officials or employees of a State or any other public authority or entity or by employees or officials of an intergovernmental organization in connection with their official duties.

	2.	"Infrastructure facility" means any publicly or privately owned facility providing or distributing services for the benefit of the public, such as water, sewage, energy, fuel or communications.

	3.	"Explosive or other lethal device" means:

	(a)	An explosive or incendiary weapon or device that is designed, or has the capability, to cause death, serious bodily injury or substantial material damage; or

	(b)	A weapon or device that is designed, or has the capability, to cause death, serious bodily injury or substantial material damage through the release, dissemination or impact of toxic chemicals, biological agents or toxins or similar substances or radiation or radioactive material.

	4.	"Military forces of a State" means the armed forces of a State which are organized, trained and equipped under its internal law for the primary purpose of national defence or security and persons acting in support of those armed forces who are under their formal command, control and responsibility.

	5.	"Place of public use" means those parts of any building, land, street, waterway or other location that are accessible or open to members of the public, whether continuously, periodically or occasionally, and encompasses any commercial, business, cultural, historical, educational, religious, governmental, entertainment, recreational or similar place that is so accessible or open to the public.

	6.	"Public transportation system" means all facilities, conveyances and instrumentalities, whether publicly or privately owned, that are used in or for publicly available services for the transportation of persons or cargo.


	Article 2

1.	Any person commits an offence within the meaning of this Convention if that person unlawfully and intentionally delivers, places, discharges or detonates an explosive or other lethal device in, into or against a place of public use, a State or government facility, a public transportation system or an infrastructure facility:

	(a)	With the intent to cause death or serious bodily injury; or

	(b)	With the intent to cause extensive destruction of such a place, facility or system, where such destruction results in or is likely to result in major economic loss.

2.	Any person also commits an offence if that person attempts to commit an offence as set forth in paragraph 1 of the present article.

3.	Any person also commits an offence if that person:

	(a)	Participates as an accomplice in an offence as set forth in paragraph 1 or 2 of the present article; or

	(b)	Organizes or directs others to commit an offence as set forth in paragraph 1 or 2 of the present article; or

	(c)	In any other way contributes to the commission of one or more offences as set forth in paragraph 1 or 2 of the present article by a group of persons acting with a common purpose; such contribution shall be intentional and either be made with the aim of furthering the general criminal activity or purpose of the group or be made in the knowledge of the intention of the group to commit the offence or offences concerned.


	Article 3

	This Convention shall not apply where the offence is committed within a single State, the alleged offender and the victims are nationals of that State, the alleged offender is found in the territory of that State and no other State has a basis under article 6, paragraph 1 or paragraph 2, of this Convention to exercise jurisdiction, except that the provisions of articles 10 to 15 shall, as appropriate, apply in those cases.


	Article 4

	Each State Party shall adopt such measures as may be necessary:

	(a)	To establish as criminal offences under its domestic law the offences set forth in article 2 of this Convention;

	(b)	To make those offences punishable by appropriate penalties which take into account the grave nature of those offences.


	Article 5

	Each State Party shall adopt such measures as may be necessary, including, where appropriate, domestic legislation, to ensure that criminal acts within the scope of this Convention, in particular where they are intended or calculated to provoke a state of terror in the general public or in a group of persons or particular persons, are under no circumstances justifiable by considerations of a political, philosophical, ideological, racial, ethnic, religious or other similar nature and are punished by penalties consistent with their grave nature.




	Article 6

1.	Each State Party shall take such measures as may be necessary to establish its jurisdiction over the offences set forth in article 2 when:

	(a)	The offence is committed in the territory of that State; or

	(b)	The offence is committed on board a vessel flying the flag of that State or an aircraft which is registered under the laws of that State at the time the offence is committed; or

	(c)	The offence is committed by a national of that State.

2.	A State Party may also establish its jurisdiction over any such offence when:

	(a)	The offence is committed against a national of that State; or

	(b)	The offence is committed against a State or government facility of that State abroad, including an embassy or other diplomatic or consular premises of that State; or

	(c)	The offence is committed by a stateless person who has his or her habitual residence in the territory of that State; or

	(d)	The offence is committed in an attempt to compel that State to do or abstain from doing any act; or

	(e)	The offence is committed on board an aircraft which is operated by the Government of that State.

3.	Upon ratifying, accepting, approving or acceding to this Convention, each State Party shall notify the Secretary-General of the United Nations of the jurisdiction it has established under its domestic law in accordance with paragraph 2 of the present article.  Should any change take place, the State Party concerned shall immediately notify the Secretary-General.

4.	Each State Party shall likewise take such measures as may be necessary to establish its jurisdiction over the offences set forth in article 2 in cases where the alleged offender is present in its territory and it does not extradite that person to any of the States Parties which have established their jurisdiction in accordance with paragraph 1 or 2 of the present article.

5.	This Convention does not exclude the exercise of any criminal jurisdiction established by a State Party in accordance with its domestic law.


	Article 7

1.	Upon receiving information that a person who has committed or who is alleged to have committed an offence as set forth in article 2 may be present in its territory, the State Party concerned shall take such measures as may be necessary under its domestic law to investigate the facts contained in the information.

2.	Upon being satisfied that the circumstances so warrant, the State Party in whose territory the offender or alleged offender is present shall take the appropriate measures under its domestic law so as to ensure that person's presence for the purpose of prosecution or extradition.

3.	Any person regarding whom the measures referred to in paragraph 2 of the present article are being taken shall be entitled to:

	(a)	Communicate without delay with the nearest appropriate representative of the State of which that person is a national or which is otherwise entitled to protect that person's rights or, if that person is a stateless person, the State in the territory of which that person habitually resides;

	(b)	Be visited by a representative of that State;

	(c)	Be informed of that person's rights under subparagraphs (a) and (b).

4.	The rights referred to in paragraph 3 of the present article shall be exercised in conformity with the laws and regulations of the State in the territory of which the offender or alleged offender is present, subject to the provision that the said laws and regulations must enable full effect to be given to the purposes for which the rights accorded under paragraph 3 are intended.

5.	The provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of the present article shall be without prejudice to the right of any State Party having a claim to jurisdiction in accordance with article 6, subparagraph 1 (c) or 2 (c), to invite the International Committee of the Red Cross to communicate with and visit the alleged offender.

6.	When a State Party, pursuant to the present article, has taken a person into custody, it shall immediately notify, directly or through the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the States Parties which have established jurisdiction in accordance with article 6, paragraphs 1 and 2, and, if it considers it advisable, any other interested States Parties, of the fact that that person is in custody and of the circumstances which warrant that person's detention.  The State which makes the investigation contemplated in paragraph 1 of the present article shall promptly inform the said States Parties of its findings and shall indicate whether it intends to exercise jurisdiction.


	Article 8

1.	The State Party in the territory of which the alleged offender is present shall, in cases to which article 6 applies, if it does not extradite that person, be obliged, without exception whatsoever and whether or not the offence was committed in its territory, to submit the case without undue delay to its competent authorities for the purpose of prosecution, through proceedings in accordance with the laws of that State.  Those authorities shall take their decision in the same manner as in the case of any other offence of a grave nature under the law of that State.

2.	Whenever a State Party is permitted under its domestic law to extradite or otherwise surrender one of its nationals only upon the condition that the person will be returned to that State to serve the sentence imposed as a result of the trial or proceeding for which the extradition or surrender of the person was sought, and this State and the State seeking the extradition of the person agree with this option and other terms they may deem appropriate, such a conditional extradition or surrender shall be sufficient to discharge the obligation set forth in paragraph 1 of the present article.


	Article 9

1.	The offences set forth in article 2 shall be deemed to be included as extraditable offences in any extradition treaty existing between any of the States Parties before the entry into force of this Convention.  States Parties undertake to include such offences as extraditable offences in every extradition treaty to be subsequently concluded between them.

2.	When a State Party which makes extradition conditional on the existence of a treaty receives a request for extradition from another State Party with which it has no extradition treaty, the requested State Party may, at its option, consider this Convention as a legal basis for extradition in respect of the offences set forth in article 2.  Extradition shall be subject to the other conditions provided by the law of the requested State.

3.	States Parties which do not make extradition conditional on the existence of a treaty shall recognize the offences set forth in article 2 as extraditable offences between themselves, subject to the conditions provided by the law of the requested State.

4.	If necessary, the offences set forth in article 2 shall be treated, for the purposes of extradition between States Parties, as if they had been committed not only in the place in which they occurred but also in the territory of the States that have established jurisdiction in accordance with article 6, paragraphs 1 and 2.

5.	The provisions of all extradition treaties and arrangements between States Parties with regard to offences set forth in article 2 shall be deemed to be modified as between State Parties to the extent that they are incompatible with this Convention.


		Article 10

1.	States Parties shall afford one another the greatest measure of assistance in connection with investigations or criminal or extradition proceedings brought in respect of the offences set forth in article 2, including assistance in obtaining evidence at their disposal necessary for the proceedings.

2.	States Parties shall carry out their obligations under paragraph 1 of the present article in conformity with any treaties or other arrangements on mutual legal assistance that may exist between them.  In the absence of such treaties or arrangements, States Parties shall afford one another assistance in accordance with their domestic law.


	Article 11

	None of the offences set forth in article 2 shall be regarded, for the purposes of extradition or mutual legal assistance, as a political offence or as an offence connected with a political offence or as an offence inspired by political motives.  Accordingly, a request for extradition or for mutual legal assistance based on such an offence may not be refused on the sole ground that it concerns a political offence or an offence connected with a political offence or an offence inspired by political motives.


	Article 12

	Nothing in this Convention shall be interpreted as imposing an obligation to extradite or to afford mutual legal assistance, if the requested State Party has substantial grounds for believing that the request for extradition for offences set forth in article 2 or for mutual legal assistance with respect to such offences has been made for the purpose of prosecuting or punishing a person on account of that person's race, religion, nationality, ethnic origin or political opinion or that compliance with the request would cause prejudice to that person's position for any of these reasons.


	Article 13

1.	A person who is being detained or is serving a sentence in the territory of one State Party whose presence in another State Party is requested for purposes of testimony, identification or otherwise providing assistance in obtaining evidence for the investigation or prosecution of offences under this Convention may be transferred if the following conditions are met:

	(a)	The person freely gives his or her informed consent; and

	(b)	The competent authorities of both States agree, subject to such conditions as those States may deem appropriate.

2.	For the purposes of the present article:

	(a)	The State to which the person is transferred shall have the authority and obligation to keep the person transferred in custody, unless otherwise requested or authorized by the State from which the person was transferred;

	(b)	The State to which the person is transferred shall without delay implement its obligation to return the person to the custody of the State from which the person was transferred as agreed beforehand, or as otherwise agreed, by the competent authorities of both States;

	(c)	The State to which the person is transferred shall not require the State from which the person was transferred to initiate extradition proceedings for the return of the person;

	(d)	The person transferred shall receive credit for service of the sentence being served in the State from which he was transferred for time spent in the custody of the State to which he was transferred.

3.	Unless the State Party from which a person is to be transferred in accordance with the present article so agrees, that person, whatever his or her nationality, shall not be prosecuted or detained or subjected to any other restriction of his or her personal liberty in the territory of the State to which that person is transferred in respect of acts or convictions anterior to his or her departure from the territory of the State from which such person was transferred.


	Article 14

	Any person who is taken into custody or regarding whom any other measures are taken or proceedings are carried out pursuant to this Convention shall be guaranteed fair treatment, including enjoyment of all rights and guarantees in conformity with the law of the State in the territory of which that person is present and applicable provisions of international law, including international law of human rights.


	Article 15

	States Parties shall cooperate in the prevention of the offences set forth in article 2, particularly:

	(a)	By taking all practicable measures, including, if necessary, adapting their domestic legislation, to prevent and counter preparations in their respective territories for the commission of those offences within or outside their territories, including measures to prohibit in their territories illegal activities of persons, groups and organizations that encourage, instigate, organize, knowingly finance or engage in the perpetration of offences as set forth in article 2; 

	(b)	By exchanging accurate and verified information in accordance with their national law, and coordinating administrative and other measures taken as appropriate to prevent the commission of offences as set forth in article 2; 

	(c)	Where appropriate, through research and development regarding methods of detection of explosives and other harmful substances that can cause death or bodily injury, consultations on the development of standards for marking explosives in order to identify their origin in post-blast investigations, exchange of information on preventive measures, cooperation and transfer of technology, equipment and related materials.


	Article 16

	The State Party where the alleged offender is prosecuted shall, in accordance with its domestic law or applicable procedures, communicate the final outcome of the proceedings to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who shall transmit the information to the other States Parties.


	Article 17

	The States Parties shall carry out their obligations under this Convention in a manner consistent with the principles of sovereign equality and territorial integrity of States and that of non-intervention in the domestic affairs of other States.


	Article 18

	Nothing in this Convention entitles a State Party to undertake in the territory of another State Party the exercise of jurisdiction and performance of functions which are exclusively reserved for the authorities of that other State Party by its domestic law.


	Article 19

1.	Nothing in this Convention shall affect other rights, obligations and responsibilities of States and individuals under international law, in particular the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and international humanitarian law. 

2.	The activities of armed forces during an armed conflict, as those terms are understood under international humanitarian law, which are governed by that law, are not governed by this Convention, and the activities undertaken by military forces of a State in the exercise of their official duties, inasmuch as they are governed by other rules of international law, are not governed by this Convention.


	Article 20

1.	Any dispute between two or more States Parties concerning the interpretation or application of this Convention which cannot be settled through negotiation within a reasonable time shall, at the request of one of them, be submitted to arbitration.  If, within six months from the date of the request for arbitration, the parties are unable to agree on the organization of the arbitration, any one of those parties may refer the dispute to the International Court of Justice, by application, in conformity with the Statute of the Court.

2.	Each State may at the time of signature, ratification, acceptance or approval of this Convention or accession thereto declare that it does not consider itself bound by paragraph 1 of the present article.  The other States Parties shall not be bound by paragraph 1 with respect to any State Party which has made such a reservation.

3.	Any State which has made a reservation in accordance with paragraph 2 of the present article may at any time withdraw that reservation by notification to the Secretary-General of the United Nations.


	Article 21

1.	This Convention shall be open for signature by all States from 12 January 1998 until 31 December 1999 at United Nations Headquarters in New York.

2.	This Convention is subject to ratification, acceptance or approval.  The instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.

3.	This Convention shall be open to accession by any State.  The instruments of accession shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.


	Article 22

1.	This Convention shall enter into force on the thirtieth day following the date of the deposit of the twenty-second instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.

2.	For each State ratifying, accepting, approving or acceding to the Convention after the deposit of the twenty-second instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, the Convention shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after deposit by such State of its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession.


	Article 23

1.	Any State Party may denounce this Convention by written notification to the Secretary-General of the United Nations.

2.	Denunciation shall take effect one year following the date on which notification is received by the Secretary-General of the United Nations.


	Article 24

	The original of this Convention, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who shall send certified copies thereof to all States.


	IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by their respective Governments, have signed this Convention, opened for signature at United Nations Headquarters in  New York on 12 January 1998.

1 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-second Session, Supplement No. 37 (A/52/37).
2 See A/C.6/52/L.3, annex I.
3 See resolution 50/6.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------



 

 


98-76117	/...


98-76117	/...

A/RES/52/164
Page 1



	A/RES/52/164
	Page 1




98-76117	/...


98-76117	/...

A/RES/52/164
Page 2



	A/RES/52/164
	Page 2




	/...


	/...

A/RES/52/164
Page 10



	A/RES/52/164
	Page 10







