[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 13 December 2010
[without reference to a Main Committee (A/65/L.41 and Add.1)]
65/130.	Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Council of Europe


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling the Agreement between the Council of Europe and the Secretariat of the United Nations signed on 15 December 1951 and the Arrangement on Cooperation and Liaison between the Secretariats of the United Nations and the Council of Europe of 19 November 1971,
	Recalling also its resolution 44/6 of 17 October 1989, in which it granted the Council of Europe a standing invitation to participate as an observer in its sessions and work, as well as its previous resolutions on cooperation between the United Nations and the Council of Europe,1
	Noting the sixtieth anniversary of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms,2 in 2010, and the entry into force of Protocol No. 14 thereto,3 on 1 June 2010,
	Acknowledging the contribution of the Council of Europe, at the European level, to the protection and strengthening of human rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy and the rule of law through its standards, principles and monitoring mechanisms, as well as to the effective implementation of relevant international legal instruments of the United Nations,
	Acknowledging also the contribution of the Council of Europe to the development of international law, and noting the openness of the Council of Europe to the participation of States of other regions in its legal instruments,
	Noting the contribution of the Council of Europe to the report submitted by the Secretary-General to the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session on the support by the United Nations system of the efforts of Governments to promote and consolidate new or restored democracies,4
	Noting also the contribution of the Council of Europe to the universal periodic review by the Human Rights Council of the situation of human rights in States members of the Council of Europe,
	Noting further the continued attention of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to the ongoing reform process of the United Nations, and following with interest the reform process within the Council of Europe initiated by its present Secretary-General,
	Welcoming the increasingly close relations between the United Nations and the Council of Europe and the opening of the Council of Europe Office in Geneva, which acts as the Permanent Delegation of the Council of Europe to the United Nations Office at Geneva and other international organizations in Geneva, as well as the decision of the Council of Europe to open an Office in Vienna,
	Taking note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General on cooperation between the United Nations and the Council of Europe,5
	1.	Reiterates its call for the reinforcement of cooperation between the United Nations and the Council of Europe regarding the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, inter alia, the promotion of democracy and the rule of law, the prevention of torture, the fight against trafficking in human beings, the fight against racism, discrimination, xenophobia and intolerance, the fight against impunity for human rights violations, the promotion of gender equality and the protection of the rights of persons belonging to minorities;
	2.	Confirms its recognition of the important role of the European Court of Human Rights in ensuring effective human rights protection under the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms2 for the eight hundred million individuals in the forty-seven States members of the Council of Europe, and notes with interest the February 2010 Council of Europe Interlaken Declaration and Action Plan to reform the European Court of Human Rights aimed at ensuring the longer-term effectiveness of this judicial mechanism and the ongoing work aiming at accession of the European Union to the Convention;
	3.	Encourages further cooperation between the United Nations, including the Human Rights Council and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, as well as the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders, and the Council of Europe, including its Commissioner for Human Rights, regarding promoting respect for human rights, and in this context, welcomes the holding of the regional consultation organized in Strasbourg, France, on 16 and 17 December 2009 by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights in cooperation with the Council of Europe on enhancing cooperation between the international human rights system and the European human rights mechanisms;
	4.	Also encourages further cooperation, where appropriate, between the United Nations and the Council of Europe through their mechanisms regarding the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment; 
	5.	Follows the monitoring activities of the Group of Experts on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings, established under the Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings,6 and recalls that the Convention is open for accession by all States;
	6.	Encourages the Council of Europe to continue cooperation with the United Nations in the fight against trafficking in persons, and in this context welcomes the adoption of the United Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons,7 stressing the need for its full and effective implementation, and expressing the view that it will, inter alia, enhance cooperation and improve coordination of efforts in fighting trafficking in persons and promote increased ratification and full implementation of the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime8 and the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime;9
	7.	Welcomes the joint Council of Europe/United Nations study entitled Trafficking in organs, tissues and cells and trafficking in human beings for the purpose of the removal of organs,10 launched at the sixty-fourth session of the General Assembly, and encourages further joint endeavours on following up the study;
	8.	Welcomes and encourages the close collaboration between the United Nations Children's Fund, the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on violence against children, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Council of Europe to protect and promote the rights of the child, takes note of the Council of Europe Policy Guidelines on National Integrated Strategies for the Protection of Children from Violence,11 which constitute a practical follow-up to the study of the Secretary-General on violence against children,12 and notes the intention of the Council of Europe to launch a pan-European campaign to stop sexual violence against children; 
	9.	Welcomes the establishment of the new United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN-Women), and looks forward to the development of cooperation between the Council of Europe and the new entity;
	10.	Recognizes that 2010 marks the tenth anniversary of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, welcomes the increased commitment of the Council of Europe to gender equality, the empowerment of women and the elimination of violence against women, including domestic violence, and its effective contribution within the framework of the global campaign of the Secretary-General to end violence against women, as well as its commitment to the implementation of Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) of 31 October 2000, and also welcomes the drafting of a Council of Europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence; 
	11.	Encourages continuing cooperation between the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the Council of Europe, in particular in the protection and promotion of the rights of refugees, asylum-seekers and internally displaced persons, and in the prevention and reduction of statelessness, and recognizes the importance of the interface offered by the presence at the Council of Europe of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees Representation to the European Institutions in Strasbourg;
	12.	Recognizes the continuing close liaison and fruitful cooperation between United Nations missions and the field offices of the Council of Europe;
	13.	Encourages further cooperation between the United Nations and the Council of Europe in the area of democracy and good governance, including through their engagement with civil society, as appropriate, and the strengthening of the links between the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development and the Council of Europe Project on Education for Democratic Citizenship and Human Rights; 
	14.	Notes the important role of the United Nations Development Programme and the Council of Europe in supporting good local democratic governance, and encourages a deepening of the cooperation following the signature in February 2010 of the memorandum of understanding between the United Nations Development Programme Regional Bureau for Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States and the Council of Europe in this field;
	15.	Acknowledges the importance of fostering the development of the information society and the Internet in line with the Tunis Commitment and Tunis Agenda for the Information Society,13 encourages continued cooperation between the United Nations and the Council of Europe in this area, and notes that the information society and the Internet can, inter alia, promote awareness and understanding of the exercise and enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms;
	16.	Welcomes and encourages the close cooperation between the two organizations in the fight against transnational organized crime, cybercrime, corruption and money-laundering, as well as regarding the protection of the rights of victims of such crimes, and recalls that the Council of Europe Convention on Cybercrime14 and the Additional Protocol thereto15 are open for accession by all States;
	17.	Welcomes the collaboration between the respective mechanisms of the United Nations and the Council of Europe regarding the fight against terrorism in full respect of human rights and the rule of law, encourages the further contribution of the Council of Europe to the implementation of Security Council resolutions 1373 (2001) of 28 September 2001 and 1624 (2005) of 14 September 2005, and welcomes the commitment of the Council of Europe to the promotion of the implementation of the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy;16 
	18.	Supports the development of cooperation, where appropriate, between the United Nations Peacebuilding Commission and the Council of Europe, with a view to promoting post-conflict reconstruction and development, as well as the consolidation of peace, with full respect for human rights and the rule of law;
	19.	Welcomes the contribution of the Council of Europe to the Sixth Committee of the General Assembly and the International Law Commission;
	20.	Recognizes the role of the revised European Social Charter and of the European Committee of Social Rights in protecting economic and social rights, notes the complementarities of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities17 and the Council of Europe Disability Action Plan 2006-2015, and confirms its support for cooperation between the two organizations in the social and cultural fields, in particular with respect to the eradication of poverty, the protection and promotion of the rights and dignity of persons with disabilities, encouraging the integration of migrants and refugees, strengthening social cohesion, the fight against maternal and child mortality, and ensuring protection of economic, social and cultural rights for all;
	21.	Notes the cooperation established between the Alliance of Civilizations and the Council of Europe following their signature of a memorandum of understanding on 29 September 2008 and the accession of the Alliance of Civilizations to the Faro Platform, and encourages the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and the Alliance of Civilizations on the one hand, and the Council of Europe and its North-South Centre on the other, to pursue their developing and fruitful collaboration in the field of intercultural dialogue;
	22.	Also notes the cooperation between the Council of Europe and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization in the field of education, and encourages the extension of this cooperation, which should continue to focus on the role of education in developing just and humane societies characterized by the participation of individuals and the ability of individuals and societies to conduct intercultural dialogue, as well as on the encouragement of the diversity of cultural expressions;
	23.	Requests the Secretaries-General of the United Nations and the Council of Europe to combine their efforts in seeking answers to global challenges, within their respective mandates, and calls upon all relevant United Nations bodies to support the enhancement of cooperation with the Council of Europe, as appropriate, in the areas mentioned above as well as in other fields such as youth, sport, biodiversity, health and disaster risk reduction, with regard to which fruitful cooperation is already taking place;
	24.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-seventh session the sub-item entitled "Cooperation between the United Nations and the Council of Europe", and requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session a report on cooperation between the United Nations and the Council of Europe in implementation of the present resolution.

64th plenary meeting
13 December 2010
1 Resolutions 55/3, 56/43, 57/156, 59/139, 61/13 and 63/14.
2 Council of Europe, European Treaty Series, No. 5.
3 Ibid., No. 194.
4 A/64/372.
5 See A/65/382-S/2010/490, sect. II.
6 Council of Europe, European Treaty Series, No. 197.
7 Resolution 64/293.
8 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2225, No. 39574.
9 Ibid., vol. 2237, No. 39574.
10 Available from www.coe.int/trafficking.
11 Available from www.coe.int/children.
12 See A/61/299 and A/62/209.
13 See A/60/687.
14 Council of Europe, European Treaty Series, No. 185.
15 Ibid., No. 189.
16 Resolution 60/288.
17 Resolution 61/106, annex I.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1052034E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/65/130<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/65/130General AssemblyDistr.: General
24 February 2011Sixty-fifth session
Agenda item 122 (h)

10-52034
*1052034*

A/RES/65/130

A/RES/65/130

2

5

