[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly

[without reference to a Main Committee (A/55/L.43/Rev.1 and Add.1)]
		55/47.	International Decade for a Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World, 2001-2010


	The General Assembly,
	Bearing in mind the Charter of the United Nations, including the purposes and principles contained therein, and especially its dedication to saving succeeding generations from the scourge of war,
	Recalling the Constitution of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, which states that, since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed,
	Recalling also its previous resolutions on a culture of peace, in particular resolution 52/15 of 20 November 1997 proclaiming 2000 as the International Year for the Culture of Peace, and resolution 53/25 of 10 November 1998 proclaiming the period 2001-2010 as the International Decade for a Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World,
	Reaffirming the Declaration1 and Programme of Action2 on a Culture of Peace, recognizing that they serve, inter alia, as the basis for the observance of the Decade, and convinced that effective and successful observance of the Decade throughout the world will promote a culture of peace and non-violence that benefits humanity, in particular future generations,
	Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General on the International Decade for a Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World,3
	Taking note also of Commission on Human Rights resolution 2000/66 of 26 April 2000, entitled "Towards a culture of peace",4
	Emphasizing the particular relevance of the special session of the General Assembly for follow-up to the World Summit for Children, to be held in New York in 2001, the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, to be held in Durban, South Africa, in 2001, and the United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education, 1995-2004, for the International Decade for a Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World, 2001-2010,
	Taking into account the Manifesto 2000 initiative of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization promoting a culture of peace, which has so far received over sixty million signatures of endorsement throughout the world,
	1.	Recognizes that the objective of the International Decade for a Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World is to further strengthen the global movement for a culture of peace following the observance of the International Year for the Culture of Peace in 2000;
	2.	Notes with satisfaction the engagement of Member States, the United Nations system and civil society during the International Year for the Culture of Peace at the national, regional and global levels, and in this context recognizes the role of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization as the focal point during the year;
	3.	Invites Member States to place greater emphasis on and expand their activities promoting a culture of peace and non-violence, in particular during the Decade, at the national, regional and international levels and to ensure that peace and non-violence is fostered at all levels;
	4.	Welcomes the establishment of national committees and national focal points in over one hundred and sixty countries in the context of the observance of the International Year for the Culture of Peace, stresses the importance of their continued close involvement in furthering the objectives of the Declaration1 and Programme of Action2 on a Culture of Peace and in the effective observance of the Decade, and encourages the establishment of such bodies in the remaining countries;
	5.	Designates the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization as the lead agency for the Decade with responsibility for coordinating the activities of the organizations of the United Nations system to promote a culture of peace, as well as liaison with the other organizations concerned in this matter;
	6.	Recognizes the important role of relevant United Nations bodies, in particular the United Nations Children's Fund and the University for Peace, in further promoting a culture of peace and non-violence, particularly by means of special activities during the Decade at national, regional and international levels;
	7.	Requests the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization to disseminate widely in various languages the Declaration and Programme of Action and related materials, in particular throughout the Decade;
	8.	Calls upon the relevant United Nations bodies, in particular the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and the United Nations Children's Fund, to promote both formal and non-formal education at all levels that foster a culture of peace and non-violence;
	9.	Invites civil society at the local, regional and national levels to widen the scope of their activities to promote a culture of peace and non-violence, engaging in partnerships and sharing information, thus contributing to a global movement for a culture of peace, and encourages civil society, including non-governmental organizations, to further the objectives of the Decade by adopting their own programme of activities to complement the initiatives of Member States, the organizations of the United Nations system and other global and regional organizations;
	10.	Stresses the importance of the media and of new information and communications technology in further promoting a culture of peace and non-violence, especially among children and young people;
	11.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its sixtieth session in 2005 a report on the observance of the Decade at its mid-point and on the implementation of the Declaration and Programme of Action, taking into account the views of Member States and in consultation with the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the United Nations Children's Fund and other relevant bodies of the United Nations system;
	12.	Invites civil society, including non-governmental organizations, to provide information to the Secretary-General on the observance of the Decade and the activities undertaken to promote a culture of peace and non-violence;
	13.	Decides to devote one day of plenary meetings at its sixtieth session to consideration of the item, including a review of the progress made in the implementation of the Declaration and Programme of Action, as well as the observance of the Decade at its mid-point, with the participation of all relevant actors, as appropriate;
	14.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session a report on the implementation of the present resolution;
	15.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-sixth session the item entitled "Culture of peace".
74th plenary meeting
29 November 2000
1  Resolution 53/243 A.
2  Resolution 53/243 B.
3  A/55/377.
4 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, Supplement No. 3 (E/2000/23), chap. II, sect. A.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0056221E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/55/47<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

A/RES/55/47


A/RES/55/47


2
    

3
    

United NationsA/RES/55/47General AssemblyDistr.: General
22 January 2001Fifty-fifth session
Agenda item 33

00 56221

