[COMMENT1]UNITED								A
NATIONS



             General Assembly


                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/54/25
                                                                          1 December 1999

                                                                          



Fifty-fourth session
Agenda item 25


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[without reference to a Main Committee (A/54/L.25)]


54/25.	Cooperation between the United Nations and the International Organization of la Francophonie

    The General Assembly,

    Recalling its resolutions 33/18 of 10 November 1978, 50/3 of 16 October 1995 and 52/2 of 17 October 1997, as well as its decision 53/453 of 18 December 1998,

    Recalling also the Articles of the Charter of the United Nations which encourage the promotion of the purposes and principles of the United Nations through regional cooperation,

    Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on cooperation between the United Nations and the International Organization of la Francophonie,1

    Noting the desire of the two organizations to consolidate, develop and tighten the ties that exist between them in the political, economic, social and cultural fields,

    Noting with satisfaction the substantial progress achieved in cooperation between the United Nations, its specialized agencies and other United Nations bodies and programmes and the International Organization of la Francophonie,
    
    Convinced that strengthening cooperation between the United Nations and the International Organization of la Francophonie serves the purposes and principles of the United Nations,

    Considering that the International Organization of la Francophonie brings together a considerable number of States Members of the United Nations, among which it promotes multilateral cooperation in areas of interest to the United Nations,

    Appreciating the will shown by the heads of State and Government of countries that use French as a common language at their eighth summit session, held in Moncton, Canada, from 3 to 5 September 1999, to play an active part in resolving the main political and economic problems of the contemporary world and to consolidate the partnership with the United Nations to that end,

    1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on cooperation between the United Nations and the International Organization of la Francophonie;1

    2.	Notes with satisfaction the positive evolution and development of cooperation between the two organizations;

    3.	Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the Secretary-General of the International Organization of la Francophonie for their sustained efforts to strengthen cooperation and coordination between the United Nations and the International Organization of la Francophonie, thereby serving the mutual interests of the two organizations in the political, economic, social and cultural fields;

    4.	Notes with satisfaction that the International Organization of la Francophonie is participating more frequently in the work of the United Nations, to which it makes a valuable contribution;

    5.	Welcomes the involvement of the countries that use French as a common language, particularly through the International Organization of la Francophonie, in United Nations activities, including the preparation for, conduct of and follow-up to world conferences organized under United Nations auspices;

    6.	Commends the International Organization of la Francophonie for its efforts in relation to conflict prevention, management and resolution, promotion of human rights and strengthening of democracy and the rule of law, as well as its action in favour of the development of multilateral cooperation among countries with French as a common language, particularly in the areas of economic, social and cultural development, and the promotion of new information technologies, and requests United Nations bodies to give it their support;

    7.	Commends also the high-level meetings held periodically between the secretariats of the United Nations and the International Organization of la Francophonie, and advocates the participation of those secretariats in major meetings of the two organizations;

    8.	Notes with satisfaction the outcome of the meeting held in New York on 29 and 30 April 1999 between senior officials of the two organizations to exchange information and coordinate their action in certain of the organizations' member countries affected by crises;


    9.	Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General for including the International Organization of la Francophonie in the periodic meetings he holds with the heads of regional organizations, and invites him to continue to do so, taking into account the role played by the International Organization of la Francophonie in conflict prevention and support for democracy and the rule of law;

    10.	Recommends to the United Nations and the International Organization of la Francophonie that they should continue and intensify their consultations with a view to ensuring greater coordination in the areas of conflict prevention, peace-building, support for the rule of law and democracy and promotion of human rights;

    11.	Notes with satisfaction the strengthening of collaboration between the United Nations and the International Organization of la Francophonie in the area of electoral monitoring and assistance, and advocates the strengthening of cooperation between the two organizations in that area;

    12.	Requests the Secretary-General, acting in cooperation with the Secretary-General of the International Organization of la Francophonie, to encourage the holding of periodic meetings between representatives of the United Nations Secretariat and representatives of the secretariat of the International Organization of la Francophonie in order to promote the exchange of information, coordination of activities and identification of new areas of cooperation;

    13.	Invites the Secretary-General to take the necessary steps, in consultation with the Secretary-General of the International Organization of la Francophonie, to continue to promote cooperation between the two organizations;

    14.	Invites the specialized agencies, funds and programmes of the United Nations, as well as the regional commissions, including the Economic Commission for Africa, to collaborate to this end with the International Organization of la Francophonie by identifying new synergies in favour of development, in particular in the areas of poverty elimination, energy, sustainable development, education, training and the development of new information technologies;

    15.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session a report on the implementation of the present resolution;

    16.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-sixth session the item entitled "Cooperation between the United Nations and the International Organization of la Francophonie".

	53rd plenary meeting
	15 November 1999

1 A/54/397.
[COMMENT1]
<<ODS JOB NO>>N9977623E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/54/25<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------


99-77623	/...


99-77623	/...

A/RES/53/
Page 


	A/RES/54/25
	Page 


A/RES/53/
Page 



	/...


	/...

A/RES/54/25
Page 




	A/RES/54/25
	Page 








