<<ODS JOB NO>>N9976837E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/53/190<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>

UNITED									A
NATIONS



					General Assembly


																		Distr.
																		GENERAL

																		A/RES/53/190
																		12 February 1999






Fifty-third session
Agenda item 94 (d)


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Second Committee (A/53/609/Add.4)]


			53/190.Convention on Biological Diversity


	The General Assembly,

	Recalling its resolution 52/201 of 18 December 1997 on the Convention on Biological Diversity and other relevant resolutions,

	Recalling also the provisions of the Convention on Biological Diversity,1

	Recalling further Agenda 21,2 particularly its chapter 15 on the conservation of biological diversity and related chapters,

	Having considered the report of the Executive Secretary of the Convention on Biological Diversity,3

	Deeply concerned about the continued loss of the world's biological diversity, and, on the basis of the provisions of the Convention, reaffirming the commitment to the conservation of biological diversity, the sustainable use of its components and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising out of the utilization of genetic resources, including by appropriate access to genetic resources and appropriate transfer of relevant technologies, taking into account all rights over those resources and to technologies, and by appropriate funding,


	Recognizing the contribution of indigenous and local communities to the conservation and sustainable use of biological resources,

	Emphasizing that the Convention is an important instrument for achieving sustainable development, taking into account its three objectives, and for promoting the ecosystem approach embodied in the Convention and the decisions of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention,

	Recalling the decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties at its fourth meeting,4 relating to intellectual property rights and the relationship of the Convention with other international agreements,

	Noting the dialogue taking place in the Committee on Trade and Environment of the World Trade Organization on the provisions of the Agreement on Trade-related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights,5

	Encouraged by the work carried out to date under the Convention, and satisfied that most States and one regional economic integration organization have ratified the Convention,

	Taking note with appreciation of the generous offer of the Government of Colombia to host the sixth meeting of the Open-ended Ad hoc Working Group on Biosafety and the extraordinary meeting of the Conference of the Parties, which will take place at Cartagena de Indias from 15 to 19 February and on 22 and 23 February 1999, respectively,

	Recalling its invitation to the Executive Secretary of the Convention on Biological Diversity to report to the General Assembly on the result of future meetings of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention,

	Noting the importance of decision IV/6, in particular paragraph 11 thereof, adopted by the Conference of the Parties at its fourth meeting,4

	1.	Welcomes the results of the fourth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity, held at Bratislava from 4 to 15 May 1998;4

	2.	Also welcomes decision IV/16, adopted by the Conference of the Parties at its fourth meeting,4 on the adoption of the programmes of work and the thematic approach adopted to guide its work in the development of the Convention for the foreseeable future, including its in-depth consideration of ecosystems;

	3.	Calls upon Governments, in cooperation with the Conference of the Parties, to use science-based analysis to study and monitor closely the evolution of new technologies to prevent possible adverse effects on the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity, which might have an impact on farmers and local communities;

	4.	Recognizes the importance of the adoption of a protocol on biosafety at the extraordinary meeting of the Conference of the Parties in 1999, or as soon as possible thereafter;

	5.	Welcomes decision IV/15, adopted by the Conference of the Parties at its fourth meeting,4 in which it stressed the need to ensure consistency in implementing the Convention and World Trade Organization agreements, including the Agreement on Trade-related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights, with a view to promoting increased mutual supportiveness and integration of biological diversity concerns and the protection of intellectual property rights;

	6.	Reaffirms paragraph 10 of decision IV/15, in which the Conference of the Parties emphasized that further work is required to help develop a common appreciation of the relationship between intellectual property rights and the relevant provisions of the Agreement on Trade-related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights and the Convention on Biological Diversity, in particular on issues relating to technology transfer and conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising out of the use of genetic resources, including the protection of knowledge, innovations and practices of indigenous and local communities embodying traditional lifestyles relevant for the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity;

	7.	Recognizes the importance of the implementation of the Convention at all levels, including through the preparation and implementation of national strategies, plans and programmes, taking into account the need for financial resources to support the implementation activities, in particular those of developing countries, in accordance with the provisions of the Convention and decisions of the Conference of the Parties;

	8.	Encourages those States that have not yet ratified the Convention to do so as soon as possible;

	9.	Welcomes decision IV/8, adopted by the Conference of the Parties at its fourth meeting,4 in which it decided to establish a panel of experts to implement the terms outlined in the decision;

	10.	Recognizes the importance of national action to conserve biological diversity in many habitats, including forests, wetlands and coastal areas, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Convention, in particular article 8, and the need to mobilize national and international support for such national actions;

	11.	Welcomes decision IV/16, adopted by of the Conference of the Parties at its fourth meeting,4 in which it decided to include an item entitled "Alien species that threaten ecosystems, habitat or species" in the agenda of its sixth meeting;

	12.	Recognizes the utility of information exchange, and encourages the development of biodiversity information networks at the national, regional and international levels;

	13.	Invites all funding institutions and bilateral and multilateral donors, as well as regional funding institutions and non-governmental organizations, to cooperate with the secretariat of the Convention in the implementation of the programme of work;


	14.	Calls upon States parties to the Convention to settle urgently any arrears and to pay their contributions in full and in a timely manner so as to ensure continuity in the cash flows required to finance the ongoing work of the Conference of the Parties, the subsidiary bodies6 and the Convention secretariat;

	15.	Invites the Executive Secretary of the Convention on Biological Diversity to report to the General Assembly on the ongoing work regarding the Convention;

	16.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-fourth session the sub-item entitled "Convention on Biological Diversity".


	91st plenary meeting
	15 December 1998
1 See United Nations Environment Programme, Convention on Biological Diversity (Environmental Law and Institution Programme Activity Centre), June 1992.
2 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigenda), vol. I:  Resolutions adopted by the Conference, resolution 1, annex II.
3 A/53/451, annex.
4 See UNEP/CBD/COP/4/27, annex.
5 See Legal Instruments Embodying the Results of the Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations, done at Marrakesh on 15 April 1994 (GATT secretariat publication, Sales No. GATT/1994-7).
6 See United Nations Environment Programme, Convention on Biological Diversity (Environmental Law and Institution Programme Activity Centre), June 1992, articles 23.4 (g) and 25.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------



 

 


99-76837	/...


99-76837	/...

A/RES/53/190
Page 1



	A/RES/53/190
	Page 1




99-76837	/...


99-76837	/...

A/RES/53/190
Page 2



	A/RES/53/190
	Page 2




	/...


	/...

A/RES/53/190
Page 4



	A/RES/53/190
	Page 4







