[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/56/576)]
		56/229.	Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 55/70 of 4 December 2000 and its previous resolutions on the elimination of discrimination against women,
	Bearing in mind that one of the purposes of the United Nations, as stated in Articles 1 and 55 of the Charter, is to promote universal respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction of any kind, including distinction as to sex,
	Affirming that women and men should participate equally in social, economic and political development, should contribute equally to such development and should share equally in improved conditions of life,
	Recalling the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993,1 in which the Conference reaffirmed that the human rights of women and the girl child were an inalienable, integral and indivisible part of universal human rights,
	Acknowledging the need for a comprehensive and integrated approach to the promotion and protection of the human rights of women, which includes the integration of the human rights of women into the mainstream of United Nations activities system-wide,
	Reaffirming the commitments made in the political declaration2 and the outcome document3 of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly entitled "Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the twenty-first century", in particular paragraphs 68 (c) and (d) concerning the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women4 and the Optional Protocol thereto,5
	Recalling that, in the United Nations Millennium Declaration,6 heads of State and Government resolved to implement the Convention,
	Welcoming the progress made in the implementation of the Convention, but expressing concern about the remaining challenges,
	Welcoming also the growing number of States parties to the Convention, which now stands at one hundred and sixty-eight,
	Welcoming further the entry into force on 22 December 2000 of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,
	Bearing in mind the recommendation of the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women that national reports should contain information on the implementation of the Beijing Platform for Action,7 in accordance with paragraph 323 of the Platform,
	Having considered the report of the Committee on its twenty-fourth and twenty-fifth sessions,8
	Expressing concern at the great number of reports that are overdue and that continue to be overdue, in particular initial reports, which constitutes an obstacle to the full implementation of the Convention,
	1.	Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General9 on the status of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women;4
	2.	Expresses disappointment that universal ratification of the Convention was not achieved by 2000, and urges all States that have not yet ratified or acceded to the Convention to do so;
	3.	Emphasizes the importance of full compliance by States parties with their obligations under the Convention and the Optional Protocol thereto;5
	4.	Welcomes the rapidly growing number of State parties to the Optional Protocol, which now stands at twenty-eight, and urges other States parties to the Convention to consider signing and ratifying or acceding to the Optional Protocol;
	5.	Also welcomes the fact that the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women has adopted the rules governing its work under the Optional Protocol as part of its revised rules of procedure;10
	6.	Notes that some States parties have modified their reservations, expresses satisfaction that some reservations have been withdrawn, and urges States parties to limit the extent of any reservations that they lodge to the Convention, to formulate any such reservations as precisely and as narrowly as possible, to ensure that no reservations are incompatible with the object and purpose of the Convention or otherwise incompatible with international treaty law, to review their reservations regularly with a view to withdrawing them and to withdraw reservations that are contrary to the object and purpose of the Convention or that are otherwise incompatible with international treaty law;
	7.	Urges States parties to the Convention to make every possible effort to submit their reports on the implementation of the Convention in accordance with article 18 thereof and with the guidelines provided by the Committee and to cooperate fully with the Committee in the presentation of their reports;
	8.	Encourages the Secretariat to extend further technical assistance to States parties, upon their request, in the preparation of reports, in particular initial reports, and invites Governments to contribute to these efforts;
	9.	Commends the Committee on its contributions to the effective implementation of the Convention;
	10.	Strongly urges States parties to the Convention to take appropriate measures so that acceptance of the amendment to article 20, paragraph 1, of the Convention by a two-thirds majority of States parties can be reached as soon as possible so that the amendment may enter into force;
	11.	Expresses its appreciation for the additional meeting time that allows the Committee to hold two sessions annually, each session of three weeks' duration and each preceded by a pre-sessional working group of the Committee;
	12.	Also expresses its appreciation for the efforts made by the Committee to improve the efficiency of its working methods, and encourages further efforts in this regard;
	13.	Acknowledges the number of reports awaiting consideration by the Committee, and in this regard decides to authorize the Committee to hold, on an exceptional basis, an extraordinary session of three weeks' duration in 2002 to be used entirely for the consideration of the reports of the States parties in order to reduce the backlog of reports, and to enlarge the membership of the pre-sessional working group in 2002 to prepare for the exceptional session of the Committee, taking into account decision 25/I of the Committee;11
	14.	Requests the Secretary-General, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 54/4 of 6 October 1999, to provide the resources, including staff and facilities, necessary for the effective functioning of the Committee within its full mandate, in particular taking into account the entry into force of the Optional Protocol;
	15.	Urges Governments, agencies and organizations of the United Nations system and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to disseminate the Convention and the Optional Protocol thereto;
	16.	Encourages all relevant entities of the United Nations system, within their mandates, as well as Governments and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, in particular women's organizations, as appropriate, to continue to assist States parties, upon their request, in implementing the Convention, and in this regard encourages States parties to pay attention to the concluding comments as well as the general recommendations of the Committee;
	17.	Encourages all relevant entities of the United Nations system to continue to build women's knowledge and understanding of and capacity to utilize human rights instruments, in particular the Convention and the Optional Protocol thereto;
	18.	Welcomes the submission by the specialized agencies, at the invitation of the Committee, of reports on the implementation of the Convention in areas falling within the scope of their activities and the contribution of non-governmental organizations to the work of the Committee, and encourages the specialized agencies to continue to submit reports;
	19.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session a report on the status of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the implementation of the present resolution.

92nd plenary meeting
24 December 2001
1 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
2 Resolution S-23/2, annex.
3 Resolution S-23/3, annex.
4 Resolution 34/180, annex.
5 Resolution 54/4, annex.
6 See resolution 55/2.
7 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
8 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 38 (A/56/38).
9 A/56/328.
10 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 38 (A/56/38), annex I.
11 Ibid., part two, chap. I, sect. A.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0149466E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/56/229<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

2
    

3

United NationsA/RES/56/229General AssemblyDistr.: General
1 February 2002Fifty-sixth session
Agenda item 112

01 49466

A/RES/56/229


A/RES/56/229


4

3

