<<ODS JOB NO>>N9876633E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/52/98<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>

UNITED									A
NATIONS



					General Assembly


																		Distr.
																		GENERAL

																		A/RES/52/98
																		6 February 1998






Fifty-second session
Agenda item 105


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/52/637)]


52/98.Traffic in women and girls


	The General Assembly,

	Reaffirming the principles set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,1 the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,2 the International Covenants on Human Rights,3 the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment,4 the Convention on the Rights of the Child5 and the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women,6

	Recalling the Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Persons and of the Exploitation of the Prostitution of Others,7

	Recalling also its resolution 51/66 of 12 December 1996 on traffic in women and girls,


	Reaffirming the provisions of the outcome of the World Conference on Human Rights, held at Vienna from 14 to 25 June 1993,8 the International Conference on Population and Development,9 the World Summit for Social Development,10 the Fourth World Conference on Women11 and the Ninth United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders, held at Cairo from 29 April to 8 May 1995,12 pertaining to the traffic in women and children,

	Noting with concern the increasing number of women and girl children from developing countries and from some countries with economies in transition who are being victimized by traffickers, and acknowledging that the problem of trafficking also includes the victimizing of young boys,

	Emphasizing the need for more concerted and sustained national, regional and international action on the alarming levels of trafficking in women and girls,

	Acknowledging the continuing work of Governments, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations in combating trafficking in women and girls through preventive education, dissemination of information, research and the provision of shelters and programmes to rehabilitate and reintegrate survivors in society,

	Deeply concerned with the increasing unabated use of new information technologies for purposes of prostitution, child pornography, paedophilia, sex tourism and trafficking in women as brides,

	Convinced of the need to eliminate all forms of sexual violence and sexual trafficking, including for prostitution and other forms of commercial sex, and convinced also that sexual violence and sexual trafficking are violations of the human rights of women and girl children and are incompatible with the dignity and worth of the human person,

	Stressing the need for Governments to accord standard minimum humanitarian treatment to trafficked persons consistent with human rights standards,

	1.	Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General on the traffic in women and girls;13

	2.	Welcomes national, regional and international efforts to implement the recommendations of the World Congress against Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children,14 and calls upon Governments to take further measures in that regard;

	3.	Also welcomes actions undertaken by Governments to implement the provisions on trafficking in women and girls contained in the Platform for Action of the Fourth World Conference on Women15 and the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights,8 and calls upon Governments, particularly those of countries of origin, transit and destination, as well as regional and international organizations, as appropriate, to undertake immediate action or to strengthen efforts in their implementation by:

	(a)	Considering the ratification and enforcement of international conventions on trafficking in persons and on slavery;

	(b)	Taking appropriate measures to address the root factors, including external factors, that encourage trafficking in women and girls for prostitution and other forms of commercialized sex, forced marriage and forced labour, so as to eliminate trafficking in women, including by strengthening existing legislation, with a view to providing better protection of the rights of women and girls and to punishing perpetrators, through both criminal and civil measures;

	(c)	Stepping up cooperation and concerted action by all relevant law enforcement authorities and institutions with a view to dismantling national, regional and international networks in trafficking;

	(d)	Allocating resources to provide comprehensive programmes designed to heal and rehabilitate into society victims of trafficking, including through job training, legal assistance and confidential health care, and by taking measures to cooperate with non-governmental organizations to provide for the social, medical and psychological care of the victims of trafficking;

	(e)	Developing educational and training programmes and policies and considering enacting legislation to prevent sex tourism and trafficking, giving special emphasis to the protection of young women and children;

	4.	Calls upon Governments to criminalize trafficking in women and girls in all its forms, to condemn and penalize all those offenders involved, including intermediaries, whether their offence was committed in their own or in a foreign country, while ensuring that the victims of those practices are not penalized, and to penalize persons in authority found guilty of sexually assaulting victims of trafficking in their custody;

	5.	Urges concerned Governments to support and allocate resources for programmes to strengthen preventive action, in particular education and campaigns to increase public awareness of the issue at the national and grass-roots level, and for programmes which provide shelter and helplines to victims or potential victims;

	6.	Encourages Governments to develop systematic data-collection methods and to continuously update information on trafficking in women and girls, including the analysis of the modus operandi of trafficking syndicates;


	7.	Urges Governments to strengthen national programmes to combat trafficking in women and girls through sustained bilateral, regional and international cooperation, taking into account innovative approaches and best practices;

	8.	Invites Governments once again, with the support of the United Nations, to formulate training manuals for law enforcement and medical personnel and judicial officers who handle cases of trafficked women and girls, taking into account current research and materials on traumatic stress and gender-sensitive counselling techniques, with a view to sensitizing them to the special needs of victims;

	9.	Invites Governments and civil society, especially non-governmental organizations, to the extent consistent with freedom of expression, to promote the responsible use of new information technologies, in particular the Internet, to prevent trafficking in women and girls;

	10.	Invites States parties to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women2 and the Convention on the Rights of the Child5 to include information and statistics on trafficking in women and girls as part of their national reports to the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women, taking into account the general recommendation of the Committee, and to the Committee on the Rights of the Child, respectively;

	11.	Invites the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on violence against women, its causes and consequences, the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography and the Working Group on Contemporary Forms of Slavery of the Subcommission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities of the Commission on Human Rights to continue addressing, within their respective mandates, the problem of trafficking in women and girls as a priority concern and to recommend, in their reports, measures to combat such phenomena;

	12.	Encourages the Inter-Agency Committee on Women and Gender Equality to continue to address the issue as part of the integrated follow-up to the Fourth World Conference on Women;

	13.	Invites the Commission on the Status of Women, at its next session, to address the subject of the traffic in women and girls under the thematic issues on violence against women and the human rights of women;

	14.	Invites the Economic and Social Council and the Commission on Human Rights, at their sessions in 1998, to address trafficking in women and girls in connection with the five-year review of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action and in commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights;1 

	15.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-third session on the implementation of the present resolution, in particular the implementation of the relevant provisions on trafficking in women and girls in the Platform for Action of the Fourth World Conference on Women and the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action.


	70th plenary meeting
	12 December 1997
1 Resolution 217 A (III).
2 Resolution 34/180, annex.
3 Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
4 Resolution 39/46, annex.
5 Resolution 44/25, annex.
6 Resolution 48/104.
7 Resolution 317 (IV).
8  A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
9  Report of the International Conference on Population and Development, Cairo, 5-13 September 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.95.XIII.18), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
10  Report of the World Summit for Social Development, Copenhagen, 6-12 March 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.8), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.
11  Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.
12 See A/CONF.169/16.
13 A/52/355.
14 World Congress against Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children, Stockholm, 27-31 August 1996, Final Report of the Congress, two volumes (Stockholm, Government of Sweden, January 1997).
15  Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------



 

 


98-76633	/...


98-76633	/...

A/RES/52/98
Page 1



	A/RES/52/98
	Page 1




98-76633	/...


98-76633	/...

A/RES/52/98
Page 2



	A/RES/52/98
	Page 2




	/...


	/...

A/RES/52/98
Page 4



	A/RES/52/98
	Page 4







