[def1]UNITED									A
NATIONS



             General Assembly


                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/53/110
                                                                          20 January 1999

                                                                          



Fifty-third session
Agenda item 101


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/53/616)]


53/110.	Preparations for the Tenth United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders


    The General Assembly,

    Recalling its resolution 52/91 of 12 December 1997 on preparations for the Tenth United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders,

    Considering that, pursuant to its resolutions 415 (V) of 1 December 1950 and 46/152 of 18 December 1991, the Tenth United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders is to be convened in the year 2000,

    Recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 1993/32 of 27 July 1993 and the draft rules of procedure for United Nations congresses on the prevention of crime and the treatment of offenders annexed to that resolution,

    Emphasizing the role of the Tenth Congress as a consultative body of the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme, in accordance with paragraph 29 of the statement of principles and programme of action of the Programme annexed to resolution 46/152,

    Aware of the important work to be accomplished by the regional preparatory meetings for the Tenth Congress,


    Stressing the importance of undertaking all the preparatory activities for the Tenth Congress in a timely and concerted manner,

    Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on the progress made in the preparations for the Tenth Congress,1

    1.	Accepts with gratitude the invitation of the Government of Austria to host the Tenth United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders at Vienna;

    2.	Decides to hold the Tenth Congress from 10 to 17 April 2000, with pre-congress consultations to be held on 9 April 2000;

    3.	Approves the following provisional agenda for the Tenth Congress, finalized by the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice at its seventh session:

        1.	Opening of the Congress.

        2.	Organizational matters.

        3.	Promoting the rule of law and strengthening the criminal justice system.

4.	International cooperation in combating transnational crime: new challenges in the twenty-first century.

        5.	Effective crime prevention: keeping pace with new developments.

        6.	Offenders and victims: accountability and fairness in the justice process.

        7.	Adoption of the report of the Congress;

    4.	Notes that the Commission, at its seventh session, reviewed a draft discussion guide for the regional preparatory meetings for the Tenth Congress;2

    5.	Endorses the programme of work for the Tenth Congress, including the holding of four practical-oriented technical workshops on the following subjects:

    (a)	Combating corruption;

    (b)	Crimes related to the computer network;

    (c)	Community involvement in crime prevention;

    (d)	Women in the criminal justice system;
    
    6.	Decides that the theme of the Tenth Congress should be "Crime and justice: meeting the challenges of the twenty-first century";

    7.	Emphasizes the importance of the workshops, and invites Member States, non-governmental organizations and other relevant entities to support financially, organizationally and technically the preparations for the workshops, including the preparation and circulation of relevant background material; 

    8.	Welcomes the offer of the institutes constituting the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme network to assist in the preparations for the workshops;

    9.	Invites donor countries to cooperate with developing countries to ensure their full participation in the workshops;

    10.	Encourages Governments to undertake preparations for the Tenth Congress at an early stage by all appropriate means, including, where appropriate, the establishment of national preparatory committees, with a view to contributing to a focused and productive discussion on the topics and to participating actively in the organization and follow-up of the workshops;

    11.	Decides, without prejudice to the current preparatory arrangements for the Tenth Congress, to streamline and minimize the costs of the preparation and servicing of the regional preparatory meetings by shortening their duration and limiting their documentation, by holding them in conjunction with other regional meetings or, if they are not absolutely necessary, by not convening them at all; 

    12.	Also decides that the savings achieved should be used in servicing meetings and in supporting the priority programme activities of the Centre for International Crime Prevention of the Office for Drug Control and Crime Prevention of the Secretariat;

    13.	Requests the Secretary-General:

    (a)	To take the necessary logistic steps, in collaboration with Member States and the institutes constituting the Programme network, to mobilize the participation of interested partners in the preparations for the four workshops;

    (b)	To ensure, in collaboration with Member States, a wide and effective programme of public information related to the preparations for the Tenth Congress, to the Congress itself and to the implementation of its conclusions;

    14.	Requests the Commission, as the preparatory body for the United Nations congresses on the prevention of crime and the treatment of offenders, to accord high priority at its eighth session to the finalization in good time of all the necessary organizational and substantive arrangements;

    15.	Also requests the Commission, at its eighth session, to prepare a draft declaration for submission to the Tenth Congress, taking into account the results of the regional preparatory meetings;

    16.	Urges the regional preparatory meetings to examine the substantive items of the agenda and workshop topics of the Tenth Congress and to make action-oriented recommendations to serve as a basis for the draft declaration to be considered by the Commission at its eighth session;
    
    17.	Requests the Tenth Congress to elaborate a single declaration containing its recommendations on the various substantive items of its agenda with a view to submitting that declaration to the Commission for consideration at its ninth session;

    18.	Decides that the Commission, at its tenth session, should undertake a review of the role, function, periodicity and duration of the United Nations congresses on the prevention of crime and the treatment of offenders, including the issue of regional preparatory meetings;

    19.	Requests the Secretary-General to ensure proper follow-up of the present resolution and to report thereon to the General Assembly through the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice at its eighth session.


	85th plenary meeting
	9 December 1998
1 E/CN.15/1998/2.
2 E/CN.15/1998/2/Add.1/Rev.1.
[def1]
<<ODS JOB NO>>N9976321E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/53/110<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------


99-76321	/...


99-76321	/...

A/RES/53/
Page 


	A/RES/53/110
	Page 


A/RES/53/
Page 



	/...


	/...

A/RES/53/110
Page 




	A/RES/53/110
	Page 








