[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly
[without reference to a Main Committee (A/57/L.23/Rev.1 and Add.1)]
		57/156.	Cooperation between the United Nations and the Council of Europe


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling the Agreement between the Council of Europe and the Secretariat of the United Nations signed on 15 December 1951 and the Arrangement on Cooperation and Liaison between the secretariats of the United Nations and the Council of Europe of 19 November 1971,
	Acknowledging the contribution of the Council of Europe to the protection and strengthening of democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the protection of national minorities, and the rule of law on the European continent, including its activities against racism and intolerance, the promotion of gender equality, social development and a common cultural heritage,
	Acknowledging also that, with its significant expertise in the field of human rights, democratic institutions and the rule of law, the Council of Europe is contributing to conflict prevention, confidence-building and long-term post-conflict peace-building through political, legal and institutional reform,
	Stressing the importance of adherence to the standards and principles of the Council of Europe and its contribution to the solution of conflicts throughout the whole of Europe,
	Acknowledging the contribution of the Council of Europe to the development of international law, inter alia, international criminal law,
	Noting the increasing openness of the Council of Europe, through its legal instruments, to the participation of States of other regions, 
	1.	Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General;1
	2.	Reiterates its appreciation for the ongoing fruitful cooperation and coordination between the United Nations and its agencies and the Council of Europe, both at the level of headquarters and in the field;
	3.	Welcomes the further development of close cooperation between the Council of Europe, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the United Nations Children's Fund and the Economic Commission for Europe;
	4.	Notes the role the Council of Europe has played in facilitating the entry into force of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court2 and the readiness of the Council to provide its member States with the appropriate assistance with a view to them becoming parties to and implementing the Rome Statute;
	5.	Expresses its appreciation for the contribution of the Council of Europe to the implementation of the Programme of Action adopted by the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, held in Durban, South Africa, from 31 August to 8 September 2001,3 including the follow-up action taken by the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance;
	6.	Notes the opening for signature on 3 May 2002 in Vilnius of Protocol No. 13 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms,4 concerning the abolition of the death penalty in all circumstances;
	7.	Expresses its appreciation for the substantial contribution of the Council of Europe to the special session of the General Assembly on children, held from 8 to 10 May 2002, and notes the adoption by the Council of the European Convention on the Exercise of Children's Rights,5 which entered into force in 2000;
	8.	Also expresses its appreciation for the contributions of the Council of Europe to the International Conference on Financing for Development, held in Monterrey, Mexico, from 18 to 22 March 2002, and particularly to its follow-up process, through activities involving Governments, parliamentarians, local and regional authorities and civil society organizations, aimed at turning the commitments made at the Conference into specific actions;
	9.	Further expresses its appreciation for the substantial contribution of the Council of Europe to the World Summit on Sustainable Development, held in Johannesburg, South Africa, from 26 August to 4 September 2002, as well as its contributions to the follow-up work, for example, concerning education for sustainable development, carried out by its North-South Centre;
	10.	Commends strongly the contribution of the Council of Europe to international action against terrorism, welcomes the work of the Council's Multidisciplinary Group on International Action against Terrorism aimed, inter alia, at strengthening legal cooperation in the fight against terrorism, and in this context welcomes the approval on 7 November 2002 by the Committee of Ministers at its one hundred and eleventh session of the content of the draft protocol amending the European Convention on the Suppression of Terrorism6 which was opened for signature in 1977;
	11.	Welcomes the assessment made by the Committee of Ministers at its one hundred and eleventh session on each of the three cornerstones it had defined in 2001 for the contribution of the Council of Europe to United Nations-led international action against terrorism, namely intensifying legal cooperation to combat terrorism, safeguarding fundamental values and investing in democracy;
	12.	Commends the Council of Europe for its contribution to the implementation of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001) of 28 September 2001, and takes note in this context of the Council of Europe's Guidelines on Human Rights and the Fight against Terrorism, adopted by its Committee of Ministers on 11 July 20027 and referred to in the addendum to the report of the Secretary-General on measures to eliminate international terrorism;8
	13.	Welcomes the accession to the Council of Europe of Bosnia and Herzegovina on 24 April 2002, and expresses its appreciation for the cooperation and assistance the Council extends to this country in order to facilitate its compliance with Council standards of democracy, human rights and the rule of law;
	14.	Takes note of Opinion No. 239 adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on 24 September 2002, in which the Assembly recommended that the Committee of Ministers, on the basis of a series of commitments accepted by the highest Yugoslav authorities, invite the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to become a member of the Council as soon as the constitutional Charter had been adopted by the Parliaments of Serbia and Montenegro;
	15.	Notes that the Ministers of the forty-four member States, at the one hundred and eleventh session, reiterated their common will to see the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia become a member of the Council of Europe, while at the same time regretting that circumstances at present did not yet permit the adoption of an official invitation to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to join the Council;
	16.	Welcomes the ongoing participation of the Council of Europe in the implementation of Security Council resolution 1244 (1999) of 10 June 1999 and its cooperation with the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo, and commends the role of the Council of Europe in the development of democratic institutions, inter alia, in respect of the decentralization process, human rights protection and the rule of law in accordance with the standards of the Council of Europe;
	17.	Commends the role of the Council of Europe with regard to the electoral process in Kosovo, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, in preparation for the municipal elections which were held on 26 October 2002;
	18.	Welcomes the substantial contribution of the Council of Europe to the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe, in particular in the fields of democratization, local democracy, human rights and the rule of law, as well as cross-border cooperation and the fight against corruption, organized crime and money-laundering;
	19.	Commends the wide-ranging efforts of the Council of Europe to foster peace and stability in South-Eastern Europe;
	20.	Welcomes the Vilnius Declaration on Regional Cooperation and the Consolidation of Democratic Stability in Greater Europe, adopted by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on 3 May 2002,9 and the efforts of the Council to promote cooperation among the regional organizations, initiatives and processes in Europe and between them and the United Nations and other international organizations;
	21.	Commends the work of the Council of Europe in relation to the protection of national minorities, in particular the monitoring by the Committee of Ministers of the implementation of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities;10
	22.	Reiterates its appreciation for the active role of the Council of Europe in the tripartite meetings between the United Nations, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Council;
	23.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue exploring, with the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, possibilities for further enhancement of cooperation, information exchange and coordination between the United Nations and the Council;
	24.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-ninth session the sub-item entitled "Cooperation between the United Nations and the Council of Europe", and requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session a report on cooperation between the United Nations and the Council of Europe in implementation of the present resolution.

75th plenary meeting
16 December 2002
1 A/57/225.
2 Official Records of the United Nations Diplomatic Conference of Plenipotentiaries on the Establishment of an International Criminal Court, Rome, 15 June-17 July 1998, vol. I: Final documents (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.I.5), sect. A.
3 See A/CONF.189/12 and Corr.1, chap. I.
4 Human Rights: A Compilation of International Instruments, vol. II: Regional Instruments (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.97.XIV.1), sect. B, No. 8.
5 Ibid., sect. B, No. 35.
6 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1137, No. 17828.
7 A/57/313, annex I.
8 A/57/183/Add.1.
9 See A/56/942, annex II.
10 Human Rights: A Compilation of International Instruments, vol. II: Regional Instruments (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.97.XIV.1), sect. B, No. 34.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0254846E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/57/156<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/57/156General AssemblyDistr.: General
4 March 2003Fifty-seventh session
Agenda item 22 (d)

02 54846

A/RES/57/156

A/RES/57/156

2

3

