[UN1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 19 December 2007
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/62/419/Add.2)]
62/191.	Follow-up to and implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States


	The General Assembly,
	Reaffirming the Declaration of Barbados1 and the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,2 adopted by the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, and recalling its resolution 49/122 of 19 December 1994 on the Global Conference, 
	Reaffirming also the Mauritius Declaration3 and the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States ("Mauritius Strategy for Implementation"),4 adopted by the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States on 14 January 2005, 
	Recalling its resolutions 59/311 of 14 July 2005, 60/194 of 22 December 2005 and 61/196 of 20 December 2006, 
	Recalling also the 2005 World Summit Outcome,5 
	Welcoming the decision taken by the Commission on Sustainable Development at its thirteenth session6 to devote one day of its review sessions to the review of the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation, focusing on that year's thematic cluster, as well as on any new developments in the sustainable development efforts of small island developing States using existing modalities, and to request the Secretary-General to submit a report to the Commission at its review session on progress in and obstacles to sustainable development in small island developing States, including recommendations to enhance the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation, 
	Welcoming also the convening of one half-day session of the Intergovernmental Preparatory Meeting of the Commission on Sustainable Development at its fifteenth session, as called for by the General Assembly in its resolution 61/196, to discuss policy options for addressing the barriers and constraints facing small island developing States in the four thematic areas of the session, taking into account the review of the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation conducted during the fourteenth session of the Commission, 
	Reaffirming that the adverse effects of climate change and sea-level rise present significant risks to the sustainable development of small island developing States, that the effects of climate change may threaten the very existence of some of those States and that, therefore, adaptation to the adverse impacts of climate change and sea-level rise remains a major priority for small island developing States, 
	Recognizing the urgent need to increase the level of resources provided to small island developing States for the effective implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation, 
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;7 
	2.	Welcomes the renewed commitment of the international community to the implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States;2
	3.	Urges Governments and all relevant international and regional organizations, United Nations funds, programmes, specialized agencies and regional commissions, international financial institutions and the Global Environment Facility, as well as other intergovernmental organizations and major groups, to take timely action for the effective implementation of and follow-up to the Mauritius Declaration3 and the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation,4 including the further development and operationalization of concrete projects and programmes; 
	4.	Calls for the full and effective implementation of the commitments, programmes and targets adopted at the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States and, to this end, for the fulfilment of the provisions for the means of implementation, as contained in the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation, and encourages small island developing States and their development partners to continue to consult widely in order to develop further concrete projects and programmes for the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation; 
	5.	Calls upon the international community to enhance support for the efforts of small island developing States to adapt to the adverse impacts of climate change, including through the provision of dedicated sources of financing, capacity-building and the transfer of appropriate technologies to address climate change; 
	6.	Encourages the implementation of partnership initiatives, within the framework of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation, in support of the sustainable development of small island developing States; 
	7.	Reiterates its request to the Secretary-General to strengthen the Small Island Developing States Unit of the Department of Economic and Social Affairs of the Secretariat, as called for in its resolutions 57/262 of 20 December 2002, 58/213 A of 23 December 2003, 59/229 of 22 December 2004, 59/311, 60/194 and 61/196, and urges the Secretary-General to ensure that the Unit is sufficiently and sustainably staffed without delay to undertake its broad range of mandated functions with a view to facilitating the full and effective implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation, within existing resources, including by redeploying resources; 
	8.	Calls upon the Secretary-General to prepare a report during the sixty-second session of the General Assembly on actions taken to implement paragraph 7 of the present resolution; 
	9.	Calls for the provision of new and additional voluntary resources for the revitalization of the Small Island Developing States Information Network; 
	10.	Requests the relevant agencies of the United Nations system, within their respective mandates, to intensify efforts aimed at mainstreaming the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation in their work programmes and to establish a focal point for matters related to small island developing States within their respective secretariats to support coordinated implementation of the programme of action at the national, subregional, regional and global levels; 
	11.	Calls upon the international community to enhance its support for the implementation of the programme of work on island biodiversity8 as a set of actions to address characteristics and problems that are specific to islands, adopted by the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity at its eighth meeting, in 2006; 
	12.	Decides to review progress made in addressing the vulnerabilities of small island developing States through the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation at the sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly; 
	13.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the General Assembly at its sixty-third session on the follow-up to and implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation; 
	14.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-third session, under the item entitled "Sustainable development", the sub-item entitled "Follow-up to and implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States".

78th plenary meeting
19 December 2007
1 Report of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Bridgetown, Barbados, 25 April-6 May 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.94.I.18 and corrigenda), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
2 Ibid., annex II.
3 Report of the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Port Louis, Mauritius, 10-14 January 2005 (United Nations publication Sales No. E.05.II.A.4 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
4 Ibid., annex II.
5 See resolution 60/1.
6 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2005, Supplement No. 9 (E/2005/29), chap. I, sect. C, resolution 13/1.
7 A/62/279.
8 UNEP/CBD/COP/8/31, annex I, decision VIII/1, annex.
[UN1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0747523E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/62/191<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/62/191General AssemblyDistr.: General
11 February 2008Sixty-second session
Agenda item 54 (b)

07-47523

A/RES/62/191

A/RES/62/191

2

3

