[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 20 December 2010
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/65/436/Add.1)]
65/152.	Implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the outcomes of the World Summit on Sustainable Development


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 55/199 of 20 December 2000, 56/226 of 24 December 2001, 57/253 and 57/270 A of 20 December 2002 and 57/270 B of 23 June 2003, as well as its resolution 64/236 of 24 December 2009 and all other previous resolutions on the implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the outcomes of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, 
	Recalling also the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development,1 Agenda 21,2 the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21,3 the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development4 and the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation"),5 as well as the Monterrey Consensus of the International Conference on Financing for Development,6 the Doha Declaration on Financing for Development: outcome document of the Follow-up International Conference on Financing for Development to Review the Implementation of the Monterrey Consensus7 and the outcome document of the High-level Plenary Meeting of the General Assembly on the Millennium Development Goals,8
	Recalling further the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,9 the Declaration and state of progress and initiatives for the future implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,10 the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States11 and the outcome document of the High-level Review Meeting on the Implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,12 
	Reaffirming the commitment to implement Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21, the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation, including the time-bound goals and targets, and the other internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals,
	Recalling the 2005 World Summit Outcome,13
	Reaffirming the decisions taken at the eleventh session of the Commission on Sustainable Development,14
	Recalling that the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation designated the Commission to serve as the focal point for discussion on partnerships that promote sustainable development and contribute to the implementation of intergovernmental commitments in Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation,
	Noting with satisfaction that the Commission, at its eighteenth session, undertook an in-depth evaluation of progress in implementing Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation, focusing on the thematic cluster of issues, namely, transport, chemicals, waste management, mining and a ten-year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and production patterns, taking into account their interlinkages as well as addressing the cross-cutting issues, including means of implementation, and identified best practices, constraints and obstacles in the process of implementation, 
	Reaffirming that eradicating poverty, changing unsustainable patterns of production and consumption and protecting and managing the natural resource base of economic and social development are overarching objectives of and essential requirements for sustainable development,
	Recognizing that eradicating poverty is the greatest global challenge facing the world today and an indispensable requirement for sustainable development, in particular for developing countries, and that although each country has the primary responsibility for its own sustainable development and poverty eradication and the role of national policies and development strategies cannot be overemphasized, concerted and concrete measures are required at all levels to enable developing countries to achieve their sustainable development goals as related to the internationally agreed poverty-related targets and goals, including those contained in Agenda 21, the relevant outcomes of other United Nations conferences and the United Nations Millennium Declaration,15 
	Recalling that the Economic and Social Council should increase its role in overseeing system-wide coordination and the balanced integration of economic, social and environmental aspects of United Nations policies and programmes aimed at promoting sustainable development, and reaffirming that the Commission should continue to be the high-level body responsible for sustainable development within the United Nations system and to serve as a forum for the consideration of issues related to the integration of the three dimensions of sustainable development, 
	Recognizing that good governance within each country and at the international level is essential for sustainable development, 
	Noting with appreciation the offer of the Government of Panama to host, in January 2011, the intersessional meeting of the Commission on sustainable consumption and production patterns, 
	Noting with appreciation also the offer of the Government of Japan to host, in February 2011, the intersessional meeting of the Commission on sustainable waste management and that the Governments of Chile and Morocco hosted, in November 2010, the intersessional senior expert group meeting on the topic "Sustainable development of lithium resources in Latin America: emerging issues and opportunities" and the intersessional consultative meeting on the topic "Solid waste management in Africa" respectively,
	Recalling its decision to hold the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in Brazil in 2012,16
	Expressing deep concern that the resources available in the Commission trust fund are insufficient to fund the participation of delegates from developing countries, as well as representatives of major groups, in the meetings of the preparatory process of the Conference and in the Conference itself, 
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Preparatory Committee for the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development on its first session;17
	2.	Also takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;18
	3.	Reiterates that sustainable development is a key element of the overarching framework for United Nations activities, in particular for achieving the internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals, and those contained in the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation;5
	4.	Calls upon Governments, all relevant international and regional organizations, the Economic and Social Council, the United Nations funds and programmes, the regional commissions and specialized agencies, the international financial institutions, the Global Environment Facility and other intergovernmental organizations, in accordance with their respective mandates, as well as major groups, to take action to ensure the effective implementation of and follow-up to the commitments, programmes and time-bound targets adopted at the World Summit on Sustainable Development, and encourages them to report on concrete progress in that regard;
	5.	Calls for the effective implementation of the commitments, programmes and time-bound targets adopted at the World Summit on Sustainable Development and for the fulfilment of the provisions relating to the means of implementation, as contained in the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation; 
	6.	Reiterates that the Commission on Sustainable Development is the high-level body responsible for sustainable development within the United Nations system and serves as a forum for the consideration of issues related to the integration of the three dimensions of sustainable development, and underlines the need to further support the work of the Commission, taking into account its existing mandate and the decisions taken at its eleventh session;14
	7.	Emphasizes the importance of a consensus outcome and action-oriented policy sessions; 
	8.	Recalls the decision of the Commission at its eleventh session that activities during Commission meetings should provide for balanced involvement of participants from all regions, as well as for gender balance;19
	9.	Encourages donor countries to support the participation of representatives from developing countries in the nineteenth session of the Commission, inter alia, through contributions to the Commission trust fund; 
	10.	Reaffirms the objective of strengthening the implementation of Agenda 21,2 including through the mobilization of financial and technological resources, as well as capacity-building programmes, in particular for developing countries, and in this regard invites donor Governments and international financial institutions, together with the international community, to support the efforts of developing countries to overcome barriers and constraints identified during the review year in the thematic cluster of issues, namely, transport, chemicals, waste management, mining and a ten-year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and production patterns; 
	11.	Also reaffirms the objective of enhancing the participation and the effective involvement of civil society and other relevant stakeholders, as well as promoting transparency and broad public participation, in the implementation of Agenda 21; 
	12.	Requests the secretariat of the Commission to coordinate the participation of the relevant major groups in the thematic discussions at the nineteenth session of the Commission and the reporting on the fulfilment of corporate responsibility and accountability with respect to the thematic cluster of issues, in accordance with the provisions of the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation; 
	13.	Reaffirms the need to promote corporate social responsibility and accountability as envisaged by the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation; 
	14.	Requests the secretariat of the Commission to make arrangements to facilitate the balanced representation of major groups from developed and developing countries in the sessions of the Commission, and in this regard invites donor countries to consider supporting the participation of major groups from developing countries, inter alia, through contributions to the Commission trust fund; 
	15.	Reiterates its invitation to the relevant United Nations funds and programmes, the regional commissions and specialized agencies, the international and regional financial and trade institutions and the Global Environment Facility, as well as the secretariats of the multilateral environmental agreements and other relevant bodies, within their mandates, to actively participate in and to effectively contribute to the work of the Commission at its nineteenth session; 
	16.	Encourages Governments and organizations at all levels, as well as major groups, to undertake results-oriented initiatives and activities to support the work of the Commission and to promote and facilitate the implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 213 and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation, including through voluntary multi-stakeholder partnership initiatives; 
	17.	Underlines the importance of setting aside, at the nineteenth session of the Commission, adequate time for all activities envisaged in the policy sessions, including negotiations on policy options and possible actions, and in this regard notes the importance of having all required documents, including the draft negotiating document of the Chair, made available for consideration prior to the beginning of the session; 
	18.	Reaffirms its decision to hold the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in Brazil in 2012;16
	19.	Endorses the recommendations contained in chapter IV, "Organizational and procedural matters: report of Contact Group 1 on the review of the preparatory process, including organizational and procedural matters, leading up to the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in 2012", and annex II to the report of the Preparatory Committee for the Conference on its first session;17
	20.	Requests the Secretary-General to provide all appropriate support to the work of the preparatory process of the Conference and of the Conference itself and to ensure inter-agency cooperation and effective participation and coherence within the United Nations system, as well as the efficient use of resources, in order to address all the objectives and themes of the Conference; 
	21.	Invites Governments and all relevant stakeholders, including regional commissions, United Nations organizations and bodies, other relevant intergovernmental and regional organizations, international financial institutions and major groups involved in sustainable development, to participate fully and effectively at all levels and to provide ideas and proposals reflecting their experiences and lessons learned as a contribution to the preparatory process of the Conference, as agreed in the preparatory process by Member States; 
	22.	Encourages Governments to actively involve and to coordinate inputs from all national agencies responsible for economic development, social development and environmental protection in their national preparations for the Conference; 
	23.	Encourages the United Nations development system to support, as appropriate, national country preparations for the Conference, upon the request of national authorities; 
	24.	Calls upon international and bilateral donors and other countries in a position to do so to provide voluntary contributions to the Commission trust fund, requests the Secretary-General to make further efforts to use the limited resources in the trust fund in an efficient and effective way in order to enhance the active participation of representatives from developing countries in the preparatory process of the Conference and in the Conference itself, and in this regard encourages the Secretary-General, when using the resources of the trust fund, to prioritize the coverage of economy class air tickets, daily subsistence and terminal expenses; 
	25.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-sixth session, under the item entitled "Sustainable development", the sub-item entitled "Implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the outcomes of the World Summit on Sustainable Development", and requests the Secretary-General, at that session, to submit a report on the implementation of the present resolution, including on the progress of the preparations for the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development.

69th plenary meeting
20 December 2010
1 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992, vol. I, Resolutions Adopted by the Conference (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum), resolution 1, annex I.
2 Ibid., annex II.
3 Resolution S-19/2, annex.
4 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
5 Ibid., resolution 2, annex.
6 Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico, 18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
7 Resolution 63/239, annex.
8 See resolution 65/1.
9 Report of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Bridgetown, Barbados, 25 April-6 May 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.94.I.18 and corrigenda), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
10 Resolution S-22/2, annex.
11 Report of the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Port Louis, Mauritius, 10-14 January 2005 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.05.II.A.4 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
12 See resolution 65/2.
13 See resolution 60/1.
14 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2003, Supplement No. 9 (E/2003/29), chap. I.
15 See resolution 55/2.
16 See resolution 64/236.
17 A/CONF.216/PC/5.
18 A/65/298.
19 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2003, Supplement No. 9 (E/2003/29), chap. I, sect. A; see also Economic and Social Council resolution 2003/61, para. 2 (j).
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1052166E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/65/152<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

1
    

1

United NationsA/RES/65/152General AssemblyDistr.: General
16 February 2011Sixty-fifth session
Agenda item 20 (a)

10-52166
*1052166*

A/RES/65/152

A/RES/65/152

2

5

