[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/57/532/Add.5)]
57/260.	Convention on Biological Diversity


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 55/201 of 20 December 2000 and 56/197 of 21 December 2001 on the Convention on Biological Diversity,1
	Reaffirming that the Convention on Biological Diversity is the key international instrument for the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from the use of genetic resources,
	Underlining the importance of traditional knowledge, innovations and practices of indigenous and local communities for the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity, their development and wider application with the approval and involvement of the holders of such knowledge, innovations and practices, their protection subject to national legislation, and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising out of their commercial use, in accordance with the provisions of the Convention on Biological Diversity,
	Taking into account the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development2 and the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation"),3
	Noting with interest the partnership initiatives voluntarily undertaken by some Governments, international organizations and major groups and announced at the Summit,
	Expressing its deep appreciation to the Government of the Netherlands for hosting the sixth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity and the third meeting of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety, held at The Hague from 7 to 26 April 2002,
	Also expressing its deep appreciation for the generous offer of the Government of Malaysia to host the seventh meeting of the Conference of the Parties, which will be held in Kuala Lumpur in 2004,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Executive Secretary of the Convention on Biological Diversity, submitted by the Secretary-General to the General Assembly;4
	2.	Notes the outcome of the sixth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity,5 hosted by the Government of the Netherlands from 7 to 19 April 2002;
	3.	Also notes the outcome of the third meeting of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety, held at The Hague from 22 to 26 April 2002;
	4.	Welcomes the fact that one hundred eighty-five States and one regional economic integration organization have become parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity,1 and urges States that have not joined the Convention to become parties to it;
	5.	Invites parties to the Convention to ratify or accede to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety to the Convention on Biological Diversity6 as soon as possible;
	6.	Reiterates the importance of the decision of the Fourth Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization to examine, through the World Trade Organization Council for Trade-related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights, the relationship between the Agreement on Trade-related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights7 and the Convention on Biological Diversity, as well as the protection of traditional knowledge;
	7.	Recalls the commitments made at the World Summit on Sustainable Development to pursue a more efficient and coherent implementation of the three objectives of the Convention on Biological Diversity and the achievement by 2010 of a significant reduction in the current rate of loss of biological diversity, which will require the provision of new and additional financial and technical resources to developing countries and includes actions at all levels, and in this regard calls upon the international community to provide the necessary support to developing countries, and stresses the importance of the effective use of resources;
	8.	Also recalls the commitment made at the World Summit on Sustainable Development to negotiate within the framework of the Convention on Biological Diversity, bearing in mind the Bonn Guidelines,8 an international regime to promote and safeguard the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising out of the utilization of genetic resources. And invites the Conference of the Parties to take appropriate steps in this regard;
	9.	Further recalls the commitment made at the World Summit on Sustainable Development to implement the expanded action-oriented work programme of the Convention on Biological Diversity on all types of forest biological diversity, in close cooperation with the United Nations Forum on Forests, members of the Collaborative Partnership on Forests and other forest-related processes and conventions, with the involvement of all relevant stakeholders;
	10.	Notes the ongoing work of the liaison group of the secretariats and officers of the relevant subsidiary bodies of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change,9 the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, particularly in Africa10 and the Convention on Biological Diversity, and encourages continued cooperation to promote complementarities among the secretariats, while respecting their independent legal status;
	11.	Calls upon the secretariat of the Convention on Biological Diversity to continue to work closely with the Global Environment Facility and other relevant institutions to help developing countries to build the required national capacities to prepare for the entry into force of the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety, including in the areas of risk assessment and risk management;
	12.	Welcomes the launching of the pilot phase of the Biosafety Clearing House, and calls for strengthened international support for developing countries to build their national capacities to interact with it and to benefit from its expeditious strengthening so that it becomes fully functional at the time of the entry into force of the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety;
	13.	Emphasizes the need for a substantial increase in financial and technical resources for the implementation of the Convention on Biological Diversity and the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety by developing countries and countries with economies in transition, and in this regard welcomes the successful and substantial third replenishment of the Global Environment Facility;
	14.	Invites the Executive Secretary of the Convention on Biological Diversity to continue to report to the General Assembly on the ongoing work regarding the Convention;
	15.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session the sub-item entitled "Convention on Biological Diversity".

78th plenary meeting
20 December 2002
1  United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1760, No. 30619.
2 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
3 Ibid., resolution 2, annex.
4 See A/57/220.
5 Bearing in mind the procedural concerns of some States relating to decision VI/23, and in this regard noting the deliberations and decisions of the Bureau of the sixth meeting of the Conference of the Parties, with a view to addressing these concerns at the seventh meeting of the Conference of the Parties (see paras. 294-324 of the report of the sixth meeting of the Conference of the Parties and the minutes of the meeting of the Bureau of the sixth meeting of the Conference of the Parties, held in Montreal, Canada, on 23 and 24 September 2002).
6 See UNEP/CBD/ExCOP/1/3 and Corr.1, part two, annex.
7 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1869, No. 31874.
8 Bonn Guidelines on Access to Genetic Resources and Fair and Equitable Sharing of the Benefits Arising out of their Utilization (decision VI/24 of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity).
9 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1771, No. 30822.
10 Ibid., vol. 1954, No. 33480.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0255648E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/57/260<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/57/260General AssemblyDistr.: General
30 January 2003Fifty-seventh session
Agenda item 87 (e)

02 55648

A/RES/57/260

A/RES/57/260

2

3

