[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 8 November 2004
[without reference to a Main Committee (A/59/L.11 and Add.1)]
		59/20.	Cooperation between the United Nations and the Pacific Islands Forum


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 56/41 of 7 December 2001 and 57/37 of 21 November 2002,
	Welcoming the ongoing efforts towards closer cooperation between the United Nations and the Pacific Islands Forum and its associated institutions,
	Reaffirming that one of the guiding principles for cooperation in peacebuilding adopted by the fourth high-level meeting between the United Nations and heads of regional organizations is that, as the promotion of self-reliance should be a fundamental goal of all cooperative and peacebuilding activities, peacebuilding must be a home-grown process in which the role of the United Nations and regional organizations is to support national endeavours,
	Noting the outcomes of the Special Leaders' Retreat of the Pacific Islands Forum, held in New Zealand in April 2004,1
	Taking note of the communiqué of the thirty-fifth meeting of the Pacific Islands Forum, held in Apia from 5 to 7 August 2004,
	Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on cooperation between the United Nations and regional and other organizations,2
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General,2 in particular the section on cooperation between the United Nations and the Pacific Islands Forum, and encourages further such cooperation;
	2.	Welcomes the ongoing work of various international organizations, United Nations agencies, funds and programmes in advancing knowledge in the key strategic areas related to governance, security, economic growth, trade and sustainable development, as well as in the implementation of the internationally agreed development goals, including those in the United Nations Millennium Declaration,3 in the Pacific Island countries;
	3.	Also welcomes the decision of the Pacific Islands Forum to develop a "Pacific Plan",4 which is aimed at enhancing regional integration and cooperation among its members and cooperation with the international community, including the United Nations system;
	4.	Further welcomes the steps taken by the Secretary-General for the sixth high-level meeting between the United Nations and heads of regional organizations, to be convened in mid-2005, and recognizes the tasks before the United Nations departments and organizations in leading the process of implementing the recommendations of the last meeting and in formulating practical follow-up plans for discussion during the next meeting;
	5.	Notes with satisfaction that regular consultations continue at all levels between the United Nations and the secretariat of the Pacific Islands Forum and that the United Nations also participated in the 2004 session of the Pacific Islands Forum Regional Security Committee and at the Leaders' Forum, held in Apia in August 2004;
	6.	Welcomes the ongoing efforts of the Pacific Islands Forum to promote, primarily through the Regional Security Committee, law enforcement cooperation, the rule of law and regional peace and security, including combating all types of terrorism, in implementing the core United Nations treaties on anti-terrorism, anti-money-laundering, transnational crime and the financing of terrorism;
	7.	Requests, in this regard, that the United Nations continue to assist the Pacific Islands Forum to enable the timely implementation of relevant United Nations mandates, and invites States to contribute to the Biketawa Trust Fund, which is administered by the Pacific Islands Forum for confidence-building measures and conflict prevention;
	8.	Welcomes the significant efforts of the Pacific Islands Forum in enhancing peace and security in the region, including through the Regional Assistance Mission to Solomon Islands;
	9.	Also welcomes the readiness of the United Nations, in cooperation with the Pacific Islands Forum, to field an inter-agency mission to Nauru to identify ways of assisting that country to cope with its current situation;
	10.	Notes with appreciation the role of the United Nations in the Bougainville peace process in Papua New Guinea and the steady progress being made by the parties;
	11.	Welcomes plans for the joint hosting of a regional seminar with the Pacific Islands Forum on "Conflict prevention and peacebuilding", to be held in early 2005;
	12.	Requests that the Department of Political Affairs of the Secretariat and the United Nations Development Programme, in cooperation with the Pacific Islands Forum, promote joint cooperative needs assessment missions in the region to determine additional support to enhance peacebuilding and reconciliation processes and to complement the activities of regional missions and mechanisms; 
	13.	Takes note of steps taken by the Pacific Islands Forum to solidify its partnership with non-State actors in the region in promoting governance and sustainable development issues;
	14.	Invites the United Nations Institute for Training and Research to develop, in close consultation with the Pacific Islands Forum and other interested agencies, a Pacific-specific regional training programme on "Preventive diplomacy and post-conflict resolution", and to convene this programme in the Pacific in 2005;
	15.	Urges all States to participate, at the highest level possible, in the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, to be held in Mauritius;
	16.	Recognizes the burden placed on small States by growing international reporting requirements, and encourages the investigation of innovative reporting modalities, including regional reporting, where appropriate;
	17.	Calls upon the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to provide technical support to Pacific Islands Forum members to contribute to the regional efforts in promoting awareness and knowledge of all international human rights treaties;
	18.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its sixty-first session a report on the implementation of the present resolution;
	19.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-first session the sub-item entitled "Cooperation between the United Nations and the Pacific Islands Forum". 

50th plenary meeting
8 November 2004
1 See A/59/95.
2 A/59/303.
3 See resolution 55/2.
4 See A/59/95, enclosure II.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0447740E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/59/20<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/59/20General AssemblyDistr.: General
27 January 2005Fifty-ninth session
Agenda item 56 (q)

04-47740

A/RES/59/20

A/RES/59/20

2

3

