[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 15 December 2005
[without reference to a Main Committee (A/60/L.36 and Add.1)]
60/126.  Assistance to the Palestinian people


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 59/56 of 2 December 2004, as well as previous resolutions on the question,
	Recalling also the signing of the Declaration of Principles on Interim Self-Government Arrangements in Washington, D.C., on 13 September 1993, by the Government of the State of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization, the representative of the Palestinian people,1 and the subsequent implementation agreements concluded by the two sides,
	Recalling further the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,2 the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights2 and the Convention on the Rights of the Child,3
	Gravely concerned at the deterioration in the living conditions of the Palestinian people, in particular children, throughout the occupied territory, which constitutes a mounting humanitarian crisis,
	Conscious of the urgent need for improvement in the economic and social infrastructure of the occupied territory,
	Aware that development is difficult under occupation and is best promoted in circumstances of peace and stability,
	Noting the great economic and social challenges facing the Palestinian people and their leadership,
	Emphasizing the importance of the safety and well-being of all children in the whole Middle East region,
	Deeply concerned about the negative impact, including the health and psychological consequences, of violence on the present and future well-being of children in the region,
	Conscious of the urgent necessity for international assistance to the Palestinian people, taking into account the Palestinian priorities,
	Welcoming the results of the Conference to Support Middle East Peace, convened in Washington, D.C., on 1 October 1993, the establishment of the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee and the work being done by the World Bank as its secretariat and the establishment of the Consultative Group, as well as all follow-up meetings and international mechanisms established to provide assistance to the Palestinian people,
	Welcoming also the work of the Joint Liaison Committee, which provides a forum in which economic policy and practical matters related to donor assistance are discussed with the Palestinian Authority, 
	Stressing the continued importance of the work of the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee in the coordination of assistance to the Palestinian people,
	Noting the upcoming meeting of the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee to review the state of the Palestinian economy, and progress in drawing up a medium-term development plan for the Palestinian economy,
	Stressing the need for the full engagement of the United Nations in the process of building Palestinian institutions and in providing broad assistance to the Palestinian people, and welcoming in this regard the support provided to the Palestinian Authority by the Task Force on Palestinian Reform, established by the Quartet in 2002,
	Noting, in this regard, the active participation of the United Nations Special Coordinator for the Middle East Peace Process and Personal Representative of the Secretary-General to the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority in the activities of the Special Envoys of the Quartet,
	Welcoming the endorsement by the Security Council, in its resolution 1515 (2003) of 19 November 2003, of the performance-based road map to a permanent two-State solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict,4 and stressing the need for its implementation and compliance with its provisions,
	Welcoming also the Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip and parts of the northern West Bank as a step towards implementation of the road map,
	Having considered the report of the Secretary-General,5
	Expressing grave concern at the continuation of the recent tragic and violent events that have led to many deaths and injuries, including among children,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;5
	2.	Also takes note of the report of the Personal Humanitarian Envoy of the Secretary-General on the humanitarian conditions and needs of the Palestinian people;6
	3.	Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General for his rapid response and efforts regarding assistance to the Palestinian people;
	4.	Also expresses its appreciation to the Member States, United Nations bodies and intergovernmental, regional and non-governmental organizations that have provided and continue to provide assistance to the Palestinian people;
	5.	Stresses the importance of the work of the United Nations Special Coordinator for the Middle East Peace Process and Personal Representative of the Secretary-General to the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Palestinian Authority and of the steps taken under the auspices of the Secretary-General to ensure the achievement of a coordinated mechanism for United Nations activities throughout the occupied territories;
	6.	Urges Member States, international financial institutions of the United Nations system, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations and regional and interregional organizations to extend, as rapidly and as generously as possible, economic and social assistance to the Palestinian people, in close cooperation with the Palestine Liberation Organization and through official Palestinian institutions;
	7.	Calls upon relevant organizations and agencies of the United Nations system to intensify their assistance in response to the urgent needs of the Palestinian people in accordance with Palestinian priorities set forth by the Palestinian Authority;
	8.	Calls upon the international community to provide urgently needed assistance and services in an effort to alleviate the dire humanitarian crisis being faced by Palestinian children and their families and to help in the reconstruction of relevant Palestinian institutions;
	9.	Urges Member States to open their markets to exports of Palestinian products on the most favourable terms, consistent with appropriate trading rules, and to implement fully existing trade and cooperation agreements;
	10.	Calls upon the international donor community to expedite the delivery of pledged assistance to the Palestinian people to meet their urgent needs;
	11.	Stresses, in this context, the importance of ensuring the free passage of aid to the Palestinian people and the free movement of persons and goods;
	12.	Welcomes the recent agreement on movement and access between the two sides and the subsequent opening of the Rafah border on 25 November 2005, and stresses the need to ensure that the commitments made in the agreement are fully implemented in accordance with the timeline set out in the agreement;
	13.	Stresses the need for all concerned parties to work together for the speedy resolution of all outstanding issues relating to disengagement, and welcomes in this regard the work of the Quartet Special Envoy for Disengagement;
	14.	Urges the international donor community, United Nations agencies and organizations and non-governmental organizations to extend as rapidly as possible emergency economic and humanitarian assistance to the Palestinian people to counter the impact of the current crisis;
	15.	Stresses the need to implement the Paris Protocol on Economic Relations of 29 April 1994, fifth annex to the Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement on the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, signed in Washington, D.C., on 28 September 1995,7 in particular with regard to the full and prompt clearance of Palestinian indirect tax revenues, and welcomes the progress made in this regard;
	16.	Suggests the convening in 2006 of a United Nations-sponsored seminar on assistance to the Palestinian people;
	17.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the General Assembly at its sixty-first session, through the Economic and Social Council, on the implementation of the present resolution, containing:
	(a)	An assessment of the assistance actually received by the Palestinian people;
	(b)	An assessment of the needs still unmet and specific proposals for responding effectively to them;
	18.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-first session the sub-item entitled "Assistance to the Palestinian people".

63rd plenary meeting
15 December 2005
1 A/48/486-S/26560, annex.
2 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
3 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1577, No. 27531.
4 S/2003/529, annex.
5 A/60/90-E/2005/80.
6 Available from http://domino.un.org/bertini_rpt.htm.
7 A/51/889-S/1997/357, annex.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0549516E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/60/126<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

1
    

1

United NationsA/RES/60/126General AssemblyDistr.: General
17 March 2006Sixtieth session
Agenda item 73 (d)

05-49516

A/RES/60/126

A/RES/60/126

2

3

