[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 20 December 2006
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/61/422/Add.2)]
61/197.	Towards the sustainable development of the Caribbean Sea for present and future generations


	The General Assembly,
	Reaffirming the principles and commitments enshrined in the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development,1 the principles embodied in the Declaration of Barbados,2 the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,3 the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development4 and the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation"),5 as well as other relevant declarations and international instruments,
	Recalling the Declaration and review document adopted by the General Assembly at its twenty-second special session,6
	Taking into account all other relevant General Assembly resolutions, including resolutions 54/225 of 22 December 1999, 55/203 of 20 December 2000, 57/261 of 20 December 2002 and 59/230 of 22 December 2004,
	Taking into account also the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,7
	Recalling the 2005 World Summit Outcome,8
	Recalling also the Convention for the Protection and Development of the Marine Environment of the Wider Caribbean Region, signed at Cartagena de Indias, Colombia, on 24 March 1983,9 and its protocols, which contain the definition of the wider Caribbean region of which the Caribbean Sea is part,
	Reaffirming the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea,10 which provides the overall legal framework for ocean activities, and emphasizing its fundamental character, conscious that the problems of ocean space are closely interrelated and need to be considered as a whole through an integrated, interdisciplinary and intersectoral approach,
	Emphasizing the importance of national, regional and global action and cooperation in the marine sector as recognized by the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in chapter 17 of Agenda 21,11
	Recalling the relevant work done by the International Maritime Organization,
	Considering that the Caribbean Sea area includes a large number of States, countries and territories, most of which are developing countries and small island developing States that are ecologically fragile, structurally weak and economically vulnerable and are also affected, inter alia, by their limited capacity, narrow resource base, need for financial resources, high levels of poverty and the resulting social problems and the challenges and opportunities of globalization and trade liberalization,
	Recognizing that the Caribbean Sea has a unique biodiversity and highly fragile ecosystem,
	Emphasizing that the Caribbean countries have a high degree of vulnerability occasioned by climate change, climate variability and associated phenomena, such as the rise in sea level, the El Niño phenomenon and the increase in the frequency and intensity of natural disasters caused by hurricanes, floods and droughts, and that they are also subject to natural disasters, such as those caused by volcanoes, tsunamis and earthquakes, 
	Bearing in mind the heavy reliance of most of the Caribbean economies on their coastal areas, as well as on the marine environment in general, to achieve their sustainable development needs and goals,
	Acknowledging that the intensive use of the Caribbean Sea for maritime transport, as well as the considerable number and interlocking character of the maritime areas under national jurisdiction where Caribbean countries exercise their rights and duties under international law, present a challenge for the effective management of the resources,
	Noting the problem of marine pollution caused, inter alia, by land-based sources and the continuing threat of pollution from ship-generated waste and sewage, as well as from the accidental release of hazardous and noxious substances in the Caribbean Sea area,
	Taking note of the relevant resolutions of the General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency on safety of transport of radioactive materials,
	Mindful of the diversity and dynamic interaction and competition among socio-economic activities for the use of the coastal areas and the marine environment and their resources,
	Mindful also of the efforts of the Caribbean countries to address in a more holistic manner the sectoral issues relating to the management of the Caribbean Sea area and, in so doing, to promote an integrated management approach to the Caribbean Sea area in the context of sustainable development, through a regional cooperative effort among Caribbean countries,
	Welcoming the continued efforts of the States members of the Association of Caribbean States to develop and implement regional initiatives to promote the sustainable conservation and management of coastal and marine resources, and noting in this regard the commitment by Heads of State and Government of the Association of Caribbean States to further develop their concept of the Caribbean Sea as a special area within the context of sustainable development, as referenced in paragraph 31 of the Mauritius Strategy, and without prejudice to relevant international law,
	Cognizant of the importance of the Caribbean Sea to present and future generations and to the heritage and the continuing economic well-being and sustenance of people living in the area, and the urgent need for the countries of the region to take appropriate steps for its preservation and protection, with the support of the international community, 
	1.	Recognizes that the unique biodiversity and highly fragile ecosystem of the Caribbean Sea require that Caribbean States and relevant regional and international development partners work together to develop and implement regional initiatives to promote the sustainable conservation and management of coastal and marine resources including, inter alia, the further development of their concept of the designation of the Caribbean Sea as a special area in the context of sustainable development, without prejudice to relevant international law;
	2.	Takes note with interest of the creation by the Association of Caribbean States of the Commission on the Caribbean Sea;
	3.	Takes note of the efforts of the Caribbean States to further develop their concept of the Caribbean Sea as a special area in the context of sustainable development, without prejudice to relevant international law, and invites the international community to recognize such efforts;
	4.	Recognizes the efforts of Caribbean countries to create conditions leading to sustainable development aimed at combating poverty and inequality, and in this regard notes with interest the initiatives of the Association of Caribbean States in the focal areas of sustainable tourism, trade, transport and natural disasters;
	5.	Calls upon the United Nations system and the international community to assist, as appropriate, Caribbean countries and their regional organizations in their efforts to ensure the protection of the Caribbean Sea from degradation as a result of pollution from ships, in particular through the illegal release of oil and other harmful substances, and from illegal dumping or accidental release of hazardous waste, including radioactive materials, nuclear waste and dangerous chemicals, in violation of relevant international rules and standards, as well as pollution from land-based activities;
	6.	Invites the Association to submit a report on its progress in the implementation of the present resolution to the Secretary-General for consideration during the sixty-third session of the General Assembly; 
	7.	Calls upon all States to become contracting parties to relevant international agreements to enhance maritime safety and promote the protection of the marine environment of the Caribbean Sea from pollution, damage and degradation from ships and ship-generated waste;
	8.	Supports the efforts of Caribbean countries to implement sustainable fisheries management programmes;
	9.	Calls upon States, taking into consideration the Convention on Biological Diversity,12 to develop national, regional and international programmes to halt the loss of marine biodiversity in the Caribbean Sea, in particular fragile ecosystems such as coral reefs;
	10.	Invites Member States and intergovernmental organizations within the United Nations system to continue their efforts to assist Caribbean countries in becoming parties to the relevant conventions and protocols concerning the management, protection and sustainable utilization of Caribbean Sea resources and in implementing them effectively; 
	11.	Calls upon the international community, the United Nations system and the multilateral financial institutions, and invites the Global Environment Facility, within its mandate, to support actively the national and regional activities of the Caribbean States towards the promotion of the sustainable management of coastal and marine resources; 
	12.	Urges the United Nations system and the international community to continue to provide aid and assistance to the countries of the Caribbean region in the implementation of their long-term programmes of disaster prevention, preparedness, mitigation, management, relief and recovery, based on their development priorities, through the integration of relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction into a comprehensive approach to sustainable development;
	13.	Calls upon Member States to improve as a matter of priority their emergency response capabilities and the containment of environmental damage, particularly in the Caribbean Sea, in the event of natural disasters or of an accident or incident relating to maritime navigation;
	14.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to it at its sixty-third session, under the sub-item entitled "Follow-up to and implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States" of the item entitled "Sustainable development", on the implementation of the present resolution, taking into account the views expressed by relevant regional organizations.

83rd plenary meeting
20 December 2006
1 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992, vol. I, Resolutions Adopted by the Conference (United Nations publication, Sales. No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum), resolution 1, annex I.
2 Report of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Bridgetown, Barbados, 25 April-6 May 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.94.I.18 and corrigenda), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
3 Ibid., annex II.
4 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
5 Ibid., resolution 2, annex.
6 See resolution S-22/2, annex.
7 Report of the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Port Louis, Mauritius, 10-14 January 2005 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.05.II.A.4 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
8 See resolution 60/1.
9 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1506, No. 25974.
10 See The Law of the Sea: Official Texts of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 and of the Agreement relating to the Implementation of Part XI of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 with Index and Excerpts from the Final Act of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.97.V.10).
11 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992, vol. 1, Resolutions Adopted by the Conference (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum), resolution 1, annex II.
12 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1760, No. 30619.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0650619E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/61/197<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

4
    

4

United NationsA/RES/61/197General AssemblyDistr.: General
9 February 2007Sixty-first session
Agenda item 53 (b)

06-50619

A/RES/61/197

A/RES/61/197

2

3

