<<ODS JOB NO>>N9776381E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/51/66<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>

UNITED						A
NATIONS



			General Assembly


									Distr.
									GENERAL

									A/RES/51/66
									31 January 1997







Fifty-first session
Agenda item 103


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/51/612)]


51/66.Traffic in women and girls


	The General Assembly,

	Reaffirming the principles set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,1 the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,2 the International Covenants on Human Rights,3 the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment,4 the Convention on the Rights of the Child5 and the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women,6 


	Recalling the Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Persons and of the Exploitation of the Prostitution of Others,7 and taking note of the comments contained in the report of the Secretary-General,8 

	Recalling also all previous resolutions on the problem of the traffic in women and girls,

	Affirming the provisions of the outcome of the World Conference on Human Rights,9 held at Vienna from 14 to 25 June 1993, the International Conference on Population and Development,10 held at Cairo from 5 to 13 September 1994, the World Summit for Social Development,11 held at Copenhagen from 6 to 12 March 1995, the Fourth World Conference on Women,12 held at Beijing from 4 to 15 September 1995, and the Ninth United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders,13 held at Cairo from 29 April to 8 May 1995, pertaining to the traffic in women and children,

	Acknowledging the work done by intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations in compiling information on the scale and complexity of the problem of trafficking, in providing shelters for trafficked women and children and in effecting their voluntary repatriation to their countries of origin,

	Noting with concern the increasing number of women and girl children from developing countries and from some countries with economies in transition who are being victimized by traffickers, and acknowledging that the problem of trafficking also victimizes young boys,

	Convinced of the need to eliminate all forms of sexual violence and sexual trafficking, including for prostitution and other forms of commercial sex, which are violations of the human rights of women and girl children and are incompatible with the dignity and worth of the human person,

	Realizing the urgent need for the adoption of effective measures nationally, regionally and internationally to protect women and girl children from this nefarious traffic,

	1.	Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General on the traffic in women and girls;8

	2.	Welcomes the convening of the World Congress against Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children at Stockholm from 27 to 31 August 1996;

	3.	Calls upon Governments of countries of origin, transit and destination and regional and international organizations, as appropriate, to implement the Platform for Action of the Fourth World Conference on Women14  by:

	(a)	Considering the ratification and enforcement of international conventions on trafficking in persons and on slavery;

	(b)	Taking appropriate measures to address the root factors, including external factors, that encourage trafficking in women and girls for prostitution and other forms of commercialized sex, forced marriage and forced labour in order to eliminate trafficking in women, including by strengthening existing legislation with a view to providing better protection of the rights of women and girls and to punishing the perpetrators, through both criminal and civil measures;

	(c)	Stepping up cooperation and concerted action by all relevant law enforcement authorities and institutions with a view to dismantling national, regional and international networks in trafficking;

	(d)	Allocating resources to provide comprehensive programmes designed to heal and rehabilitate into society victims of trafficking, including through job training, legal assistance and confidential health care and by taking measures to cooperate with non-governmental organizations to provide for the social, medical and psychological care of the victims of trafficking;

	(e)	Developing educational and training programmes and policies and considering enacting legislation aimed at preventing sex tourism and trafficking, giving special emphasis to the protection of young women and children;

	4.	Invites Governments to accord standard minimum humanitarian treatment to trafficked persons, consistent with human rights standards;

	5.	Also invites Governments, with the support of the United Nations, to formulate manuals for the training of personnel who receive and/or hold in temporary custody victims of gender-based violence, including trafficking, with a view to sensitizing them to the special needs of victims;

	6.	Encourages, in this regard, relevant United Nations organizations and bodies, including the International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women, the United Nations Development Fund for Women and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, to contribute to the preparation of guidelines for the use of Governments in the elaboration of their manuals, in cooperation with all relevant intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, including those concerned with traumatic stress, taking into account existing research material or studies on the subject;

	7.	Calls upon all Governments to criminalize trafficking in women and girls in all its forms and to condemn and penalize all those offenders involved, including intermediaries, whether their offence was committed in their own or in a foreign country, while ensuring that the victims of these practices are not penalized, and to penalize persons in authority found guilty of sexually assaulting victims of trafficking in their custody;

	8.	Urges Governments concerned to support comprehensive practical approaches by the international community to assist women and children victims of transnational trafficking to return home and to be reintegrated in their home societies;

	9.	Invites relevant intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to provide advisory services to Governments, upon their request, in planning and setting up rehabilitation programmes for victims of trafficking and in training personnel who will be directly involved in the implementation of those programmes;

	10.	Encourages Governments, institutions and non-governmental organizations to take preventive and assistance measures, including by establishing helplines to enable victims or potential victims of trafficking to seek assistance, and to provide targeted training to those groups dealing with this problem, including law enforcement and judicial personnel, using as far as possible female police officers to assist victims;

	11.	Invites the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, in addressing the obstacles to the realization of the human rights of women, in particular through his contacts with the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on violence against women, its causes and consequences and the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography, to include the traffic in women and girls among his priority concerns;

	12.	Invites States parties to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the Convention on the Rights of the Child to include information and statistics on trafficking in women and girls as part of their national reports to the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women, taking into account the general recommendation of the Committee, and to the Committee on the Rights of the Child, respectively;

	13.	Encourages the Inter-Agency Committee on Women and Gender Equality to continue to address the issue as part of the integrated follow-up to the Fourth World Conference on Women;

	14.	Encourages all Governments to develop methodologies and to collect national information, including statistical data, on trafficking in women and girls in countries with special vulnerability;

	15.	Encourages countries with special vulnerability to conduct campaigns designed to increase public awareness of the problem;


	16.	Welcomes the consideration given to the problem of trafficking in women and girls by the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, and invites the Commission to continue to consider appropriate measures to address this issue;

	17.	Also welcomes the decision of the Economic and Social Council to devote its coordination segment of 1997 to mainstreaming a gender perspective;

	18.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-second session on the implementation of the present resolution.


	82nd plenary meeting
	12 December 1996
     1 Resolution 217 A (III).
     2 Resolution 34/180, annex.
     3 Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
     4 Resolution 39/46, annex.
     5 Resolution 44/25, annex.
     6 Resolution 48/104.
     7 Resolution 317 (IV).
     8 A/51/309.
     9 See A/CONF.157/24 (Part I).
     10 See Report of the International Conference on Population and Development, Cairo, 5-13 September 1994, (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.95.XIII.18).
     11 See A/CONF.166/9.
     12 A/CONF.177/20 and Add.1.
     13 See A/CONF.169/16.
     14 A/CONF.177/20, chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------



 

 


97-76381	/...


97-76381	/...

A/RES/51/66
Page 1



	A/RES/51/66
	Page 1




97-76381	/...


97-76381	/...

A/RES/51/66
Page 2



	A/RES/51/66
	Page 2




	/...


	/...

A/RES/51/66
Page 4



	A/RES/51/66
	Page 4







