[Start1]

Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 22 December 2015
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/70/473)]
70/210.	Implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and strengthening of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling the outcomes of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements, held in Vancouver, Canada, in 1976,1 and the second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II), held in Istanbul, Turkey, in 1996,2
	Recalling also relevant resolutions of the General Assembly on the implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and strengthening of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat), including its resolutions 64/207 of 21 December 2009, 65/165 of 20 December 2010, 66/207 of 22 December 2011, 67/216 of 21 December 2012, 68/239 of 27 December 2013 and 69/226 of 19 December 2014, which addressed the convening in 2016 of the United Nations Conference on Housing and Sustainable Urban Development (Habitat III),
	Recalling further relevant decisions and resolutions of the Economic and Social Council on the coordinated implementation of the Habitat Agenda, including Council resolution 2015/34 of 22 July 2015 on human settlements, adopted by the Council at its 2015 session,
	Reaffirming the outcome document, entitled "The future we want", of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, from 20 to 22 June 2012,3 in particular paragraphs 134 to 137 on sustainable cities and human settlements, in which, inter alia, it is recognized that cities are engines of economic growth, which, if well planned and developed, including through integrated planning and management approaches, can promote economically, socially and environmentally sustainable societies,
	Reaffirming also its resolution 70/1 of 25 September 2015, entitled "Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development", in which it adopted a comprehensive, far-reaching and people-centred set of universal and transformative Sustainable Development Goals and targets, its commitment to working tirelessly for the full implementation of this Agenda by 2030, its recognition that eradicating poverty in all its forms and dimensions, including extreme poverty, is the greatest global challenge and an indispensable requirement for sustainable development, its commitment to achieving sustainable development in its three dimensions - economic, social and environmental - in a balanced and integrated manner, and to building upon the achievements of the Millennium Development Goals and seeking to address their unfinished business,
	Recalling that this new 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, inter alia, acknowledges the importance of making cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable,
	Reaffirming its resolution 69/313 of 27 July 2015 on the Addis Ababa Action Agenda of the Third International Conference on Financing for Development, which is an integral part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, supports and complements it, helps to contextualize its means of implementation targets with concrete policies and actions, and reaffirms the strong political commitment to address the challenge of financing and creating an enabling environment at all levels for sustainable development in the spirit of global partnership and solidarity,
	Recalling that the Addis Ababa Action Agenda acknowledges, inter alia, that expenditures and investments in sustainable development are being devolved to the subnational level, which often lacks adequate technical and technological capacity, financing and support, and recalling also the commitment therein to scaling up international cooperation to strengthen the capacities of municipalities and other local authorities,
	Reiterating the importance of the wide participation of all relevant stakeholders, including local authorities, in the promotion of sustainable urbanization and settlements, and stressing the importance of ensuring that such participation is balanced, taking into account the type, the dimension and the region of the participants,
	Taking note of the report of the Governing Council of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat) on its twenty-fifth session, held from 17 to 23 April 2015,4 and its resolutions contained therein, in particular resolution 25/1,5 in which the Governing Council encouraged member States, among other things, to consider the important role that sustainable urbanization and human settlements can play as a key driver of sustainable development in their national and subnational development plans,
	Stressing the importance of inclusiveness within the United Nations development system and that no country is left behind in the implementation of the present resolution,
	Recalling its resolution 67/148 of 20 December 2012, in which it called upon the United Nations system, including the funds and programmes and the specialized agencies, to increase efforts to fully mainstream a gender perspective into all issues under their consideration and within their mandates, as well as into all United Nations summits, conferences and special sessions and their follow-up processes,
	1.	Takes note of the reports of the Secretary-General on the coordinated implementation of the Habitat Agenda6 and on the implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and strengthening of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat);7
	2.	Also takes note of the report of the Preparatory Committee for the United Nations Conference on Housing and Sustainable Urban Development (Habitat III) on the work of its second session,8 including its resolution 1/2015 on the preparations for the Conference and its decisions;9
	3.	Reiterates its appreciation to the Government of Ecuador for its generous offer to host the United Nations Conference on Housing and Sustainable Urban Development (Habitat III) from 17 to 20 October 2016 and its pledge to cover the costs of the Conference;
	4.	Expresses its appreciation to the Government of Indonesia for its offer to host and cover the costs of the third session of the Preparatory Committee, to be held in Surabaya, Indonesia, from 25 to 27 July 2016;
	5.	Recognizes the World Urban Forum as the foremost global arena for interaction among policymakers, local government leaders, non-governmental stakeholders and expert practitioners in the field of human settlements, and expresses its appreciation to the Government of Malaysia and to the city of Kuala Lumpur for offering to host the ninth session of the Forum in 2018, which will be the first session to have a thematic focus on the implementation of the New Urban Agenda to be adopted at Habitat III;
	6.	Encourages Member States to participate, at the highest possible level, in Habitat III;
	7.	Encourages countries and international and bilateral donors, as well as the private sector, financial institutions and foundations and other donors and all relevant stakeholders in a position to do so, to continue to support the national, regional and global preparations for Habitat III through voluntary contributions to the Habitat III trust fund and to support the participation of representatives of developing countries in the forthcoming session of the Preparatory Committee and in the Conference itself, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 13 (c) of its resolution 67/216, and invites voluntary contributions to support the participation of Habitat Agenda partners and other relevant stakeholders in the forthcoming session of the Committee;
	8.	Takes note of the invitation of the Preparatory Committee to advance negotiations on the outstanding issues in the preparations for the Conference, including the draft provisional rules of procedure of the Conference10 and the arrangements for the accreditation and participation of major groups and other stakeholders in the preparatory process and in Habitat III,11 and decides to approve the provisional rules of procedure of the Conference and the arrangements for the accreditation and participation of major groups and other stakeholders in the preparatory process and in Habitat III as set out in annexes I and II to the present resolution;
	9.	Encourages effective contributions from and the improved participation of all relevant stakeholders, including local authorities, at all stages of the preparatory process and at the Conference itself, building on the positive experience enabled by the rules of procedure of the Governing Council of UN-Habitat and the inclusive engagement modalities of Habitat II, and notes the organization of the second World Assembly of Local and Regional Authorities back to back with Habitat III in recognition of the role of local authorities and communities in sustainable urban development and in the implementation of the New Urban Agenda;
	10.	Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General of Habitat III for his support for the work of the General Assembly of Partners for Habitat III, as a special initiative of the World Urban Campaign, in supporting and improving stakeholders' engagement in and contributions to the preparatory process for Habitat III and the Conference itself;
	11.	Reaffirms its decision that Habitat III is to result in a concise, focused, forward-looking and action-oriented outcome document, which should reinvigorate the global commitment to and support for housing and sustainable urban development and the implementation of the New Urban Agenda;
	12.	Reiterates its invitation to the Bureau of the Preparatory Committee to prepare the draft outcome document of the Conference on the basis of inputs from broad regional and thematic consultations, as well as the policy recommendations elaborated by the policy units and comments thereon received by participating States12 and all stakeholders, and to circulate the draft no later than six months prior to the Conference;
	13.	Recalls its decisions in its resolution 67/216 on the objective and results of the Conference, while remaining mindful of the need to hold the Conference and carry out the preparatory process in the most inclusive, efficient, effective and improved manner in order to ensure its success, and decides that a process of open-ended informal consultative meetings should be held for five days in April 2016, with interpretation services on an as-available basis, before the submission of the draft outcome document by the Co-Chairs of the Bureau, in order to provide opportunity for feedback on the conclusions of the policy units and the thematic and regional meetings;
	14.	Invites the Bureau of the Preparatory Committee to convene further informal intergovernmental negotiations in New York, with interpretation services on an as-available basis, as required, after the submission of the draft outcome document, in the most efficient and effective manner, for three days in May 2016, three days in June 2016 and three days in July 2016;
	15.	Invites representatives of local authorities' associations, in May 2016, and representatives of major groups and other stakeholders, in June 2016, to two-day informal hearings, with interpretation services on an as-available basis, to exchange views with countries on the zero draft of the outcome document of Habitat III, taking full advantage of the intergovernmental negotiations in May and June 2016 and building on the inclusive engagement modalities of Habitat II;
	16.	Stresses the need for flexibility in convening the informal meetings of the intergovernmental negotiations and the possibility of convening additional consultations, as required, with interpretation services on an as-available basis;
	17.	Strongly encourages Member States to conclude negotiations on the draft outcome document at the third session of the Preparatory Committee;
	18.	Encourages UN-Habitat and other relevant United Nations bodies to continue to support and assess, in line with existing mandates and resources and in consultation with Member States, progress towards the achievement of sustainable urbanization for sustainable development;
	19.	Invites Governments to endeavour to promote sustainable urban development and to discuss the role of cities and human settlements, building on the existing outcomes of conferences on major global issues, such as the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, towards Habitat III;
	20.	Encourages Member States to establish or strengthen policies at all levels in order to provide for the coordinated development and financing of urban settlements of all sizes and to fully harness the potential contribution of sustainable urbanization and human settlements to sustainable development;
	21.	Also encourages Member States to take into account, in preparing for Habitat III and the implementation of its outcome, to be presented as the New Urban Agenda, and in the formulation of policies, plans and programmes at the local, national, regional and international levels, the role of sustainable urbanization as a driver of sustainable development, urban-rural linkages and the interlinkages among the social, economic and environmental dimensions of sustainable development in promoting stable, prosperous and inclusive societies;
	22.	Encourages Member States, the international and bilateral donors and financial institutions to contribute generously to UN-Habitat through increased voluntary financial contributions to the United Nations Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation, including the Urban Basic Services Trust Fund and the technical cooperation trust funds, and invites Governments in a position to do so and other stakeholders to provide predictable multi-year funding and increased non-earmarked contributions to support the implementation of the UN-Habitat strategic plan for 2014-2019;
	23.	Reiterates the importance of the Nairobi headquarters location of UN-Habitat, and requests the Secretary-General to keep the resource needs of UN-Habitat and the United Nations Office at Nairobi under review so as to permit the delivery, in an effective manner, of necessary services to UN-Habitat and other United Nations organs and organizations in Nairobi;
	24.	Requests the Secretary-General to keep the resource needs of UN-Habitat under review in order to continue efforts to improve its efficiency, effectiveness, transparency and accountability in supporting the implementation of its mandate;
	25.	Reiterates its recognition that, over the years, the responsibilities of UN-Habitat have changed considerably in their scope and complexity and that the requirement to provide substantive and technical support to developing countries has changed in areas related to sustainable cities and human settlements, as reflected in its strategic plan for 2014-2019;
	26.	Welcomes resolution 25/7 of the Governing Council of UN-Habitat,5 by which the Council decided to strengthen the governance of the UN-Habitat and the oversight role of the Governing Council and the Committee of Permanent Representatives;
	27.	Reiterates its invitation to Member States and Habitat Agenda partners to formulate and implement sustainable urban development policies that promote just, resilient and inclusive cities and human settlements, considering the contributions of all relevant stakeholders, with a particular focus on the needs of women and those who are most vulnerable, including children and youth, older persons, persons living with disability, rural-to-urban migrants, internally displaced persons and indigenous peoples;
	28.	Stresses the importance of discussing the implementation of the New Urban Agenda, including the role of Governments, the private sector, civil society, the United Nations system and other actors, in the context of the negotiations thereon;
	29.	Calls upon the relevant organizations of the United Nations system, within their respective mandates and resources, to ensure that no country is left behind in the implementation of the present resolution;
	30.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its seventy-first session a report on the implementation of the present resolution, including an update on the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Housing and Sustainable Urban Development (Habitat III), to be held in Quito from 17 to 20 October 2016, and decides to include the item entitled "Implementation of the outcomes of the United Nations Conferences on Human Settlements and on Housing and Sustainable Urban Development and strengthening of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)" in the provisional agenda of its seventy-first session, unless otherwise agreed in the discussions on the revitalization of the Second Committee.

81st plenary meeting
22 December 2015


Annex I
Provisional rules of procedure of the United Nations Conference on Housing and Sustainable Urban Development (Habitat III)

I.	Representation and credentials
Rule 1
Composition of delegations
	The delegation of each State participating in the Conference and that of the European Union shall consist of a head of delegation and such other representatives, alternate representatives and advisers as may be required.

Rule 2
Alternates and advisers
	The head of delegation may designate an alternate representative or an adviser to act as a representative.

Rule 3
Submission of credentials
	The credentials of representatives and the names of alternate representatives and advisers shall be submitted to the secretariat of the Conference, if possible not less than one week before the date fixed for the opening of the Conference. The credentials shall be issued either by the Head of State or Government or by the Minister for Foreign Affairs or, in the case of the European Union, by the President of the European Commission.

Rule 4
Credentials Committee
	A Credentials Committee of nine members shall be appointed at the beginning of the Conference. Its composition shall be based on that of the Credentials Committee of the General Assembly of the United Nations at its seventieth session. It shall examine the credentials of representatives and report to the Conference without delay.

Rule 5
Provisional participation in the Conference
	Pending a decision of the Conference on their credentials, representatives shall be entitled to participate provisionally in the Conference.

II.	Officers
Rule 6
Elections
	The Conference shall elect from among the representatives of participating States the following officers: a President, 14 Vice-Presidents13 and an ex officio Vice-President from the host country, a Rapporteur-General, and the Chair of the Main Committee established in accordance with rule 46. These officials shall be elected on the basis of ensuring the representative character of the General Committee, the composition of which shall be in accordance with rule 11. The Conference may also elect such other officers as it deems necessary for the performance of its functions.

Rule 7
General powers of the President
1.	In addition to exercising the powers conferred upon him/her elsewhere by these rules, the President shall preside at the plenary meetings of the Conference, declare the opening and closing of each meeting, direct the discussions, ensure observance of these rules, accord the right to speak, put questions to the vote and announce decisions. The President shall rule on points of order and, subject to these rules, shall have complete control of the proceedings and over the maintenance of order thereat. The President may propose to the Conference the closure of the list of speakers, a limitation on the time to be allowed to speakers and on the number of times the representative of each participant in the Conference may speak on a question, the adjournment or the closure of the debate and the suspension or the adjournment of a meeting.
2.	The President, in the exercise of his/her functions, remains under the authority of the Conference.

Rule 8
Acting President
1.	If the President is absent from a meeting or any part thereof, he/she shall designate one of the Vice-Presidents to take his/her place.
2.	A Vice-President acting as President shall have the same powers and duties as the President.

Rule 9
Replacement of the President
	If the President is unable to perform his/her functions, a new President shall be elected.

Rule 10
Voting rights of the President
	The President, or a Vice-President acting as President, shall not vote, but shall appoint another member of his/her delegation to vote in his/her place.

III.	General Committee
Rule 11
Composition
	The President, the Vice-Presidents, the Rapporteur-General and the Chair of the Main Committee shall constitute the General Committee. The President, or, in his/her absence, one of the Vice-Presidents designated by him/her, shall serve as Chair of the General Committee. The Chair of the Credentials Committee and other Committees established by the Conference in accordance with rule 48 may participate, without the right to vote, in the General Committee.

Rule 12
Substitute members
	If the President or a Vice-President of the Conference is to be absent during a meeting of the General Committee, he/she may designate a member of his/her delegation to sit and vote in the Committee. In case of absence, the Chair of a Main Committee shall designate the Vice-Chair of that Committee as his/her substitute. When serving on the General Committee, a Vice-Chair of a Main Committee shall not have the right to vote if he/she is of the same delegation as another member of the General Committee.

Rule 13
Functions
	The General Committee shall assist the President in the general conduct of the business of the Conference and, subject to the decisions of the Conference, shall ensure the coordination of its work.

IV.	Secretariat of the Conference
Rule 14
Duties of the Secretary-General of the Conference
1.	The Secretary-General of the United Nations or his designated representative shall act in the capacity of Secretary-General of the Conference in all meetings of the Conference and its subsidiary organs.
2.	The Secretary-General of the United Nations may designate a member of the secretariat to act in his place at such meetings.
3.	The Secretary-General of the United Nations or his designated representative shall direct the staff required by the Conference.

Rule 15
Duties of the secretariat
	The secretariat of the Conference shall, in accordance with these rules:
	(a)	Provide simultaneous interpretation of speeches made at meetings;
	(b)	Receive, translate, reproduce and circulate the documents of the Conference;
	(c)	Publish and circulate the official documents of the Conference;
	(d)	Prepare and circulate records of public meetings;
	(e)	Make and arrange for the keeping of sound recordings;
	(f)	Arrange for the custody and preservation of the documents of the Conference in the archives of the United Nations;
	(g)	Generally perform all other work that the Conference may require.

Rule 16
Statements by the secretariat
	The Secretary-General of the United Nations, or any member of the secretariat designated for that purpose, may at any time make either oral or written statements concerning any question under consideration.

V.	Opening of the Conference
Rule 17
Temporary President
	The Secretary-General of the United Nations, or, in his absence, any member of the secretariat designated by him for that purpose, shall open the first meeting of the Conference and preside until the Conference has elected its President.

Rule 18
Decisions concerning organization
	The Conference shall, at its first meeting:
	(a)	Adopt its rules of procedure;
	(b)	Elect its officers and constitute its subsidiary organs;
	(c)	Adopt its agenda, the draft of which shall, until such adoption, be the provisional agenda of the Conference;
	(d)	Decide on the organization of its work.

VI.	Conduct of business
Rule 19
Quorum
	The President may declare a meeting open and permit the debate to proceed when at least one third of the representatives of the States participating in the Conference are present. The presence of representatives of a majority of the States so participating shall be required for any decision to be taken.

Rule 20
Speeches
1.	No one may address the Conference without having previously obtained the permission of the President. Subject to rules 21, 22 and 25 to 27, the President shall call upon speakers in the order in which they signify their desire to speak. The secretariat shall be in charge of drawing up a list of speakers.
2.	Debate shall be confined to the question before the Conference, and the President may call a speaker to order if his/her remarks are not relevant to the subject under discussion.
3.	The Conference may limit the time allowed to each speaker and the number of times each participant may speak on any question. Permission to speak on a motion to set such limits shall be accorded to only two representatives in favour of and two opposing such limits, after which the motion shall be immediately put to the vote. In any event, with the consent of the Conference, the President shall limit each intervention on procedural matters to five minutes. When the debate is limited and a speaker exceeds the allotted time, the President shall call him/her to order without delay.

Rule 21
Points of order
	During the discussion of any matter, a representative may at any time raise a point of order, which shall be immediately decided by the President in accordance with these rules. A representative may appeal against the ruling of the President. The appeal shall be immediately put to the vote, and the President's ruling shall stand unless overruled by a majority of the representatives present and voting. A representative may not, in raising a point of order, speak on the substance of the matter under discussion.

Rule 22
Precedence
	The Chair or Rapporteur of the Main Committee, or the representative of a subcommittee or working group, may be accorded precedence for the purpose of explaining the conclusions arrived at by the body concerned.

Rule 23
Closing of the list of speakers
	During the course of a debate, the President may announce the list of speakers and, with the consent of the Conference, declare the list closed.

Rule 24
Right of reply
1.	Notwithstanding rule 23, the President shall accord the right of reply to a representative of any State participating in the Conference or of the European Union who requests it. Any other representative may be granted the opportunity to make a reply.
2.	The statements made under this rule shall normally be made at the end of the last meeting of the day, or at the conclusion of the consideration of the relevant item if that is sooner.
3.	The representatives of a State or of the European Union may make no more than two statements under this rule at a given meeting on any item. The first shall be limited to five minutes and the second to three minutes; representatives shall in any event attempt to be as brief as possible.

Rule 25
Adjournment of debate
	A representative of any State participating in the Conference may at any time move the adjournment of the debate on the question under discussion. In addition to the proposer of the motion, permission to speak on the motion shall be accorded to only two representatives in favour of and two opposing the adjournment, after which the motion shall, subject to rule 28, be immediately put to the vote.

Rule 26
Closure of debate
	A representative of any State participating in the Conference may at any time move the closure of the debate on the question under discussion, whether or not any other representative has signified his/her wish to speak. Permission to speak on the motion shall be accorded to only two representatives opposing the closure, after which the motion shall, subject to rule 28, be immediately put to the vote.

Rule 27
Suspension or adjournment of the meeting
	Subject to rule 38, a representative of any State participating in the Conference may at any time move the suspension or the adjournment of the meeting. No discussion on such motions shall be permitted and they shall, subject to rule 28, be immediately put to the vote.

Rule 28
Order of motions
	The motions indicated below shall have precedence in the following order over all proposals or other motions before the meeting:
	(a)	To suspend the meeting;
	(b)	To adjourn the meeting;
	(c)	To adjourn the debate on the question under discussion;
	(d)	To close the debate on the question under discussion.

Rule 29
Submissions of proposals and substantive amendments
	Proposals and substantive amendments shall normally be submitted in writing to the secretariat of the Conference, which shall circulate copies to all delegations. Unless the Conference decides otherwise, substantive proposals shall be discussed or put to a decision no earlier than 24 hours after copies have been circulated in all languages of the Conference to all delegations. The President may, however, permit the discussion and consideration of amendments, even though these amendments have not been circulated or have only been circulated on the same day.

Rule 30
Withdrawal of proposals and motions
	A proposal or a motion may be withdrawn by its sponsor at any time before a decision on it has been taken, provided that it has not been amended. A proposal or a motion thus withdrawn may be reintroduced by any representative.

Rule 31
Decisions on competence
	Subject to rule 28, any motion calling for a decision on the competence of the Conference to adopt a proposal submitted to it shall be put to the vote before a decision is taken on the proposal in question.

Rule 32
Reconsideration of proposals
	When a proposal has been adopted or rejected, it may not be reconsidered unless the Conference, by a two-thirds majority of the representatives present and voting, so decides. Permission to speak on a motion to reconsider shall be accorded to only two speakers opposing reconsideration, after which the motion shall be immediately put to the vote.

VII.	Decision-making
Rule 33
General agreement
	The Conference shall make its best endeavours to ensure that the work of the Conference is accomplished by general agreement (consensus).

Rule 34
Voting rights
	Each State participating in the Conference shall have one vote.

Rule 35
Majority required

1.	Subject to rule 33, decisions of the Conference on all matters of substance shall be taken by a two-thirds majority of the representatives present and voting.
2.	Except as otherwise provided in these rules, decisions of the Conference on all matters of procedure shall be taken by a majority of the representatives present and voting.
3.	If the question arises whether a matter is one of procedure or of substance, the President of the Conference shall rule on the question. An appeal against this ruling shall be put to the vote immediately, and the President's ruling shall stand unless overruled by a majority of the representatives present and voting.
4.	If a vote is equally divided, the proposal or motion shall be regarded as rejected.

Rule 36
Meaning of the phrase "representatives present and voting"
	For the purpose of these rules, the phrase "representatives present and voting" means representatives casting an affirmative or negative vote. Representatives who abstain from voting shall be regarded as not voting.

Rule 37
Method of voting
1.	Except as provided in rule 44, the Conference shall normally vote by show of hands, except that a representative may request a roll call, which shall then be taken in the English alphabetical order of the names of the States participating in the Conference, beginning with the delegation whose name is drawn by lot by the President. The name of each State shall be called in all roll calls and its representative shall reply "yes", "no" or "abstention".
2.	When the Conference votes by mechanical means, a non-recorded vote shall replace a vote by show of hands and a recorded vote shall replace a roll call. A representative may request a recorded vote, which shall, unless a representative requests otherwise, be taken without calling out the names of the States participating in the Conference.
3.	The vote of each State participating in a roll call or a recorded vote shall be inserted in any record of or report on the Conference.

Rule 38
Conduct during voting
	After the President has announced the commencement of voting, no representative shall interrupt the voting except on a point of order in connection with the process of voting.

Rule 39
Explanation of vote
	Representatives may make brief statements, consisting solely of explanations of vote, before the voting has commenced or after the voting has been completed. The President may limit the time to be allowed for such explanations. The representative of a State sponsoring a proposal or motion shall not speak in explanation of vote thereon, except if it has been amended.

Rule 40
Division of proposals
	A representative may move that parts of a proposal be voted on separately. If a representative objects, the motion for division shall be voted upon. Permission to speak on the motion shall be accorded to only two representatives in favour of and two opposing the division. If the motion is carried, those parts of the proposal that are subsequently approved shall be put to the Conference for decision as a whole. If all operative parts of the proposal have been rejected, the proposal shall be considered to have been rejected as a whole.

Rule 41
Amendments
	A proposal is considered an amendment to another proposal if it merely adds to, deletes from or revises part of that proposal. Unless specified otherwise, the word "proposal" in these rules shall be considered as including amendments.

Rule 42
Order of voting on amendments
	When an amendment is moved to a proposal, the amendment shall be voted on first. When two or more amendments are moved to a proposal, the Conference shall vote first on the amendment furthest removed in substance from the original proposal and then on the amendment next furthest removed therefrom and so on until all the amendments have been put to the vote. Where, however, the adoption of one amendment necessarily implies the rejection of another amendment, the latter shall not be put to the vote. If one or more amendments are adopted, the amended proposal shall then be voted upon.

Rule 43
Order of voting on proposals
1.	If two or more proposals, other than amendments, relate to the same question, they shall, unless the Conference decides otherwise, be voted on in the order in which they were submitted. The Conference may, after each vote on a proposal, decide whether to vote on the next proposal.
2.	Revised proposals shall be voted on in the order in which the original proposals were submitted, unless the revision substantially departs from the original proposal. In that case, the original proposal shall be considered as withdrawn and the revised proposal shall be treated as a new proposal.
3.	A motion requiring that no decision be taken on a proposal shall be put to the vote before a decision is taken on the proposal in question.

Rule 44
Elections
	All elections shall be held by secret ballot, unless, in the absence of any objection, the Conference decides to proceed without taking a ballot when there is an agreed candidate or slate.

Rule 45
1.	When one or more elective places are to be filled at one time under the same conditions, those candidates, in a number not exceeding the number of such places, obtaining in the first ballot a majority of the votes cast and the largest number of votes, shall be elected.
2.	If the number of candidates obtaining such a majority is less than the number of places to be filled, additional ballots shall be held to fill the remaining places, the voting being restricted to the candidates obtaining the largest number of votes in the previous ballot, in a number not exceeding twice the number of places remaining to be filled.

VIII.	Subsidiary bodies
Rule 46
Main Committee
	The Conference may establish a Main Committee and a drafting Committee, which may be set up in accordance with the practice of other United Nations conferences.

Rule 47
Representation on a Main Committee
	Each State participating in the Conference and the European Union may be represented by one representative on the Main Committee established by the Conference. It may assign to the Committee such alternate representatives and advisers as may be required.

Rule 48
Other committees and working groups
1.	In addition to the Main Committee referred to above, the Conference may establish such committees and working groups as it deems necessary for the performance of its functions.
2.	Subject to the decision of the plenary of the Conference, the Main Committee may set up subcommittees and working groups.

Rule 49
1.	The members of the committees and working groups of the Conference, referred to in rule 48, paragraph 1, shall be appointed by the President, subject to the approval of the Conference, unless the Conference decides otherwise.
2.	Members of the subcommittees and working groups of committees shall be appointed by the Chair of the committee in question, subject to the approval of the committee, unless the committee decides otherwise.

Rule 50
Officers
	Except as provided in rule 6 or otherwise decided, each committee, subcommittee and working group shall elect its own officers.

Rule 51
Quorum
1.	The Chair of the Main Committee may declare a meeting open and permit the debate to proceed when representatives of at least one quarter of the States participating in the Conference are present. The presence of representatives of a majority of the States so participating shall be required for any decision to be taken.
2.	A majority of the representatives of the General Committee or the Credentials Committee or of any committee, subcommittee or working group shall constitute a quorum provided that they are representatives of participating States.

Rule 52
Officers, conduct of business and voting
	The rules contained in sections II, VI (except rule 19) and VII above shall be applicable, mutatis mutandis, to the proceedings of committees, subcommittees and working groups, except that:
	(a)	The Chairs of the General Committee and the Credentials Committee and the Chairs of the committees, subcommittees and working groups may exercise the right to vote, provided that they are representatives of participating States;
	(b)	Decisions of committees, subcommittees and working groups shall be taken by a majority of the representatives present and voting, except that the reconsideration of a proposal or an amendment shall require the majority established by rule 32.

IX.	Languages and records
Rule 53
Languages of the Conference
	Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish shall be the languages of the Conference.

Rule 54
Interpretation
1.	Speeches made in a language of the Conference shall be interpreted into other such languages.
2.	A representative may speak in a language other than a language of the Conference if the delegation concerned provides for interpretation into one such language.

Rule 55
Languages of official documents
	Official documents of the Conference shall be made available in the languages of the Conference.

Rule 56
Sound recordings of meetings
	Sound recordings of meetings of the Conference and of the Main Committee shall be made and kept in accordance with the practice of the United Nations. Unless otherwise decided by the Conference or the Main Committee, no such recordings shall be made of any of the other meetings of the Conference.

X.	Public and private meetings
Rule 57
General principles
	The plenary meetings of the Conference and the meetings of any committee shall be held in public unless the body concerned decides otherwise. All decisions taken by the plenary of the Conference at a private meeting shall be announced at an early public meeting of the plenary.

Rule 58
	As a general rule, meetings of other bodies of the General Committee, subcommittees or working groups shall be held in private.

Rule 59
Communiqués on private meetings
	At the close of a private meeting, the presiding officers of the organ concerned may issue a communiqué through the secretariat of the Conference.

XI.	Other participants and observers
Rule 60
Intergovernmental organizations and other entities that have received a standing invitation from the General Assembly to participate in the capacity of observer in the sessions and work of all international conferences convened under its auspices
	Representatives designated by intergovernmental organizations and other entities that have received a standing invitation from the General Assembly to participate in the capacity of observer in the sessions and work of all international conferences convened under its auspices have the right to participate as observers, without the right to vote, in the deliberations of the Conference, the Main Committee and, as appropriate, any other committee or working group.

Rule 61
Representatives of the specialized agencies and related organizations14
	Representatives designated by the specialized agencies and related organizations may participate, without the right to vote, in the deliberations of the Conference, the Main Committee and, as appropriate, any other committee or working group on questions within the scope of their activities.

Rule 62
Representatives of other intergovernmental organizations
	Save where otherwise specifically provided with respect to the European Union in these rules of procedure, representatives designated by other intergovernmental organizations invited to the Conference may participate as observers, without the right to vote, in the deliberations of the Conference, the Main Committee and, as appropriate, any other committee or working group on questions within the scope of their activities.

Rule 63
Representatives of interested United Nations organs
	Representatives designated by interested organs of the United Nations may participate as observers, without the right to vote, in the deliberations of the Conference, the Main Committee and, as appropriate, any other committee or working group on questions within the scope of their activities.

Rule 64
Representatives of local authorities
	Representatives of local authorities accredited to the Conference, in accordance with the arrangements set up to that effect in annex II to the present resolution, may participate, without the right to vote, in the deliberations of the Conference, the Main Committee and, as appropriate, any other committee or working group on questions within the scope of their activities.

Rule 65
Representatives of non-governmental organizations15
1.	Non-governmental organizations accredited to participate in the Conference may designate representatives to attend public meetings of the Conference and the Main Committee as observers.
2.	Upon the invitation of the presiding officer of the body concerned and subject to the approval of the Conference, such observers may make oral statements on questions in which they have special competence. If the number of requests to speak is too large, the non-governmental organizations shall be requested to form themselves into constituencies, such constituencies to speak through spokespersons.

Rule 66
Associate members of regional commissions16
	Representatives designated by the associate members of regional commissions may participate as observers, without the right to vote, in the deliberations of the Conference, the Main Committee and, as appropriate, any other committee or working group.

Rule 67
Written statements
	Written statements submitted by the designated representatives referred to in rules 60 to 66 shall be circulated by the secretariat to all delegations in the quantities and in the language in which the statements are made available to it at the site of the Conference, provided that a statement submitted on behalf of a non-governmental organization is related to the work of the Conference and is on a subject in which the organization has a special competence. Written statements shall not be made available at the expense of the United Nations and shall not be issued as official documents.

XII.	Amendment and suspension of the rules of procedure
Rule 68
Method of amendment
	These rules of procedure may be amended by a decision of the Conference taken by a two-thirds majority of the representatives present and voting, after the General Committee has reported on the proposed amendment.

Rule 69
Method of suspension
	Any of these rules may be suspended by the Conference provided that 
24 hours' notice of the proposal for the suspension has been given, which may be waived if no representative objects. Any such suspension shall be limited to a specific and stated purpose and to a period required to achieve that purpose.


Annex II
Arrangements for accreditation and participation of major groups and other relevant stakeholders in the preparatory process and in the United Nations Conference on Housing and Sustainable Urban Development (Habitat III)

I.	Background
1.	The General Assembly, in resolution 67/216, encouraged effective contributions from and the active participation of all relevant stakeholders, including local governments, major groups as identified in Agenda 21, the relevant United Nations funds and programmes, the regional commissions and specialized agencies, the international financial institutions and other Habitat Agenda partners, at all stages of the preparatory process for the Conference on Housing and Sustainable Urban Development (Habitat III) and at the Conference itself.
2.	In its resolution 69/226, the General Assembly emphasized the importance of the wide participation of all relevant stakeholders, including local authorities, in the promotion of sustainable urbanization and settlements and called upon Member States to ensure the effective participation in the preparatory process and in the Conference itself of local governments and all other stakeholders.
3.	In the same resolution, the General Assembly decided that the major groups and the non-governmental organizations in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council, as well as those accredited to Habitat II and the United Nations summit for the adoption of the post-2015 development agenda, would register in order to participate in the Conference. The General Assembly also decided that non-governmental organizations not in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council wishing to attend and contribute to the Conference, and whose work was relevant to the subject of the Conference, could participate as observers in the Conference, as well as in the preparatory meetings, in accordance with the provisions contained in part VII of Council resolution 1996/31 of 25 July 1996, and subject to the approval of the Preparatory Committee in plenary meeting, and that, while respecting fully the provisions contained in rule 57 of the rules of procedure of the functional commissions of the Council, such a decision should be made by consensus.
4.	The following arrangements for accreditation and participation of major groups and other relevant stakeholders in the preparatory process and in Habitat III will apply.

II.	Accreditation criteria and procedures for organizations in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council
5.	Interested non-governmental organizations and major groups, including local authorities and other stakeholders, whose work is relevant to the subject of the Conference, that are currently in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council and that wish to participate in the Conference or in sessions of its Preparatory Committee should pre-register on the website of the Conference (www.habitat3.org).

III.	Accreditation criteria for organizations accredited to Habitat II and the United Nations summit for the adoption of the post-2015 development agenda
6.	Organizations accredited to Habitat II and the United Nations summit for the adoption of the post-2015 development agenda, whose work is relevant to the subject of the Conference and that wish to participate in the Conference or in sessions of its Preparatory Committee, should pre-register on the website of the Conference.

IV.	Accreditation criteria and procedures for organizations without consultative status with the Economic and Social Council
7.	Those non-governmental organizations and major groups not in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council but wishing to attend and to contribute to the Conference and its preparatory process may apply to the Conference secretariat for that purpose. Such special accreditation will be limited solely to the Conference and its preparatory process.
8.	The application requires the submission of the following information:
	(a)	Name of the organization and pertinent contact information, such as address and main contact details;
	(b)	Purpose of the organization;
	(c)	Programmes and activities of the organization in areas relevant to the subject of the Conference, indicating in which country or countries they are carried out;
	(d)	Confirmation of the activities of the organization at the national, regional or international levels;
	(e)	Copies of annual or other reports of the organization, with financial statements and a list of financial sources and contributions, including governmental contributions;
	(f)	A list of the members of the governing body of the organization and their countries of nationality;
	(g)	A description of the membership of the governing body of the organization indicating, as appropriate, the total number of members and, where applicable, the names of organizations that are members and their geographical distribution;
	(h)	A copy of the constitution and/or by-laws of the organization;
	(i)	A completed online registration form.
9.	The registration of municipal and other local or regional authorities can be arranged under the auspices of an accredited non-governmental organization or as members of a national delegation through their permanent mission to the United Nations.
10.	The deadlines for submitting accreditation applications are as follows:
	(a)	Preparatory Committee, third session: 1 April 2016;
	(b)	Habitat III: 2 May 2016.
11.	Applications for special accreditation should be made online at the website of the Conference. The Conference secretariat, with support from the United Nations Non-Governmental Liaison Service and others, as appropriate, will review the relevance of the work of the applicants on the basis of their background and involvement in sustainable urban development issues. If the evaluation shows, on the basis of the information provided, that the applicant organization is competent and its activities are relevant to the work of the Conference, the Conference secretariat will recommend to the Preparatory Committee, for its decision, the accreditation of the organization. In cases where such recommendation is not made, the Conference secretariat will make available to the Preparatory Committee the reasons. The Conference secretariat will submit its recommendations to the Preparatory Committee for review and consideration by participating States on a non-objection basis.17
12.	An organization that has been granted accreditation to attend a session of the Preparatory Committee may attend all of its future sessions and the Conference itself.

V.	Modalities for participation in the preparatory process and the Conference
13.	The provisions of paragraphs 14 to 16 of General Assembly resolution 67/290 apply mutatis mutandis to the Conference and its preparatory process.18

Participation in sessions of the Preparatory Committee
14.	Representatives of accredited organizations may address the Preparatory Committee in plenary meetings. Given the short duration of each session of the Preparatory Committee, however, it is requested that statements be made available in writing for electronic distribution.

Participation modalities at the Conference
15.	Accredited organizations will have direct access to the official Conference venue. For security and safety reasons, on some days of the Conference a limit on the number of major group participants may need to be established. The Conference secretariat will inform the major groups regarding these arrangements through the Conference website.
16.	A small but representative number of participants from major groups will be invited to address the Conference in plenary meetings. Individual speakers will be identified through the self-organized mechanisms of the major groups, in coordination with the President of the Conference, through the Conference secretariat.
17.	At the Conference, a number of stakeholder events and activities are expected to take place. The details and topics of those events will be announced at a later date.

1 See Report of Habitat: United Nations Conference on Human Settlements, Vancouver, 31 May-11 June 1976 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.76.IV.7 and corrigendum).
2 See Report of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II), Istanbul, 3-14 June 1996 (A/CONF.165/14), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.
3 Resolution 66/288, annex.
4 Official Records of the General Assembly, Seventieth Session, Supplement No. 8 (A/70/8).
5 Ibid., annex.
6 E/2015/72.
7 A/70/210.
8 A/CONF.226/PC.2/6.
9 Ibid., annex I.
10 A/CONF.226/PC.2/2, annex.
11 A/CONF.226/PC.2/3.
12 Pursuant to paragraph 8 of General Assembly resolution 67/216, participating States are all States Members of the United Nations and members of the specialized agencies and of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
13 Three from each of the following groups: African States; Asia-Pacific States; Eastern European States; and Western European and other States; and two from Latin America and Caribbean States.
14 For the purpose of these rules, the term "related organizations" includes the International Atomic Energy Agency, the International Criminal Court, the International Seabed Authority, the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the Preparatory Commission for the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization and the World Trade Organization. 
15 Paragraph 23.3 of Agenda 21 provides that: "Any policies, definitions or rules affecting access to and participation by non-governmental organizations in the work of the United Nations institutions or agencies associated with the implementation of Agenda 21 must apply equally to all major groups". Agenda 21 defines major groups as comprising women, children and youth, indigenous people, non-governmental organizations, local authorities, workers and their trade unions, business and industry, the scientific and technological community and farmers. Therefore, based on Agenda 21, rule 65 shall apply equally to non-governmental organizations and other major groups. 
16 American Samoa, Anguilla, Aruba, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Curaçao, French Polynesia, Guadeloupe, Guam, Martinique, Montserrat, New Caledonia, Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, Sint Maarten, Turks and Caicos Islands and United States Virgin Islands. 
17 The list of proposed, as well as final, names will be brought to the attention of the Conference. The general basis of any objections shall be made known to the Bureau by the participating States.
18 For the purposes of the Conference and its preparatory process, paragraph 15 (d) of General Assembly resolution 67/290 will be understood to provide the opportunity to present written and oral contributions only. 
[Start1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1545091E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/70/210<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

1
    

1

United NationsA/RES/70/210General AssemblyDistr.: General
17 February 2016Seventieth session
Agenda item 21 

15-16964 (E)
*1516964*Please recycle 

A/RES/70/210Implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and strengthening of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)

Implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and strengthening of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)A/RES/70/210

2/2

21/21

