<<ODS JOB NO>>N9676675E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/50/118<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>

UNITED						A
NATIONS



			General Assembly



									Distr.
									GENERAL

									A/RES/50/118
									16 February 1996






Fiftieth session
Agenda item 97


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Second Committee (A/50/619)]


50/118.Cooperation between the United Nations and the Southern African Development Community

	The General Assembly,

	Reaffirming its resolutions 37/248 of 21 December 1982, 38/160 of 19 December 1983, 39/215 of 18 December 1984, 40/195 of 17 December 1985, 42/181 of 11 December 1987, 44/221 of 22 December 1989, 46/160 of 19 December 1991 and 48/173 of 21 December 1993, in which, inter alia, it requested the Secretary-General to promote cooperation between the organs, organizations and bodies of the United Nations system and the Southern African Development Coordination Conference, and urged intensification of contacts in order to accelerate the achievement of the objectives of the Lusaka Declaration of 1 April 1980, by which the Conference was established, 1/

	Having considered the report of the Secretary-General, 2/

	Welcoming the strengthening of the Southern African Development Community 3/ through the admission of South Africa and Mauritius as member States,

	Commending member States of the Community for demonstrating their support and commitment to deeper and more formal arrangements for cooperation within the new Community,


	Commending also the efforts made by the Community to implement its programme of action,

	Reaffirming that the successful implementation of the development programmes of the Community can be achieved only if the Community has adequate resources at its disposal,

	Noting that the effects of war, loss of life and destruction of economic and social infrastructure in southern Africa demand the continuation and strengthening of rehabilitation programmes to regenerate the economies of the countries of the region,

	Noting with grave concern the recurrence of drought in the region and the increase of poverty as a result, especially in rural communities,

	Recognizing the strengthening of democratic governance and other positive developments in the region, including the holding of elections and installation of a democratic Government in South Africa, and the restoration of democratic rule in Lesotho in September 1994, as well as the holding of multi-party elections in Malawi and recently in the United Republic of Tanzania,

	Welcoming with satisfaction the reintegration of Walvis Bay and the offshore islands into Namibia, and noting the impact of Walvis Bay as a major harbour on regional economic cooperation,

	Also noting that despite the positive developments in the political and military situation in Angola, the economic, social and humanitarian situation remains dire, and reaffirming both the importance of and the need for a continued and effective United Nations presence in promoting a negotiated settlement in Angola with a view to fostering the peace process,

	Noting with satisfaction the successful implementation of the General Peace Agreement for Mozambique, 4/ which has created favourable conditions for the establishment of lasting peace, the enhancement of democracy, the promotion of national reconciliation, and the implementation of a programme of national reconstruction and development in Mozambique,

	Recognizing the valuable and effective economic and financial contribution that some organs, organizations and bodies of the United Nations system have made to complement national and subregional efforts for the advancement of the process of democratization, rehabilitation and development in southern Africa,

	Welcoming the outcome of recent United Nations conferences, in particular the Fourth World Conference on Women, 5/ and recognizing the important role that women play in development in the region,

	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General, 2/ in which he describes progress made in the implementation of General Assembly resolutions dealing with cooperation between the United Nations and the Southern African Development Community;

	2.	Commends the States Members of the United Nations and organs, organizations and bodies of the United Nations system that have maintained, enhanced and initiated development cooperation with the Community;

	3.	Calls upon the States Members of the United Nations and organs, organizations and bodies of the United Nations system that have not yet established contact and relationships with the Community to explore the possibility of doing so;

	4.	Commends also the members of the Community for the progress that has  been achieved to date in implementing its programme of action, and encourages perseverance with those efforts;

	5.	Expresses appreciation to the international community for the financial, technical and material support given to the Community;

	6.	Renews its appeal to the international community to maintain current levels of, and increase, where appropriate, its financial, technical and material support to the Community in order to enable it to implement fully its programme of action and to meet the reconstruction and rehabilitation needs of the region;

	7.	Appeals to the international community and to relevant organizations and bodies of the United Nations system to extend appropriate assistance to the Community in order to enable it to advance further the process of regional economic integration;

	8.	Appeals to the United Nations, its related organs and the international community to assist the Community with appropriate resources to implement the programmes and decisions adopted by various United Nations world conferences, with specific emphasis on the enhancement of the role of women in the development process;

	9.	Welcomes the economic and political achievements and reforms undertaken within the Community, which are intended to address better the challenges of regional cooperation and integration in the 1990s and beyond;

	10.	Appeals to the international community to extend the needed assistance to the newly democratized South African nation to enable it to implement its reconstruction and development programme as speedily as possible;

	11.	Calls upon the United Nations to intensify its efforts to assist the Government of Angola and the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola in the rapid implementation of the Lusaka Protocol 6/ in all its aspects;

	12.	Expresses its appreciation for the substantial contributions of Member States, United Nations agencies and non-governmental organizations to meet the needs of the Angolan people, and encourages additional substantial contributions;


	13.	Calls upon the international community to continue to extend its support to the people of Mozambique in their efforts to consolidate their newfound peace and democracy based on national reconstruction and development in that country;

	14.	Reaffirms its appeal to the international community to continue rendering assistance to Namibia to enable it to implement its national development programmes;

	15.	Commends the Secretary-General and members of the international community for their timely response to the drought situation in southern Africa, which has averted famine in the region;

	16.	Appeals to the United Nations and the international community for continued assistance in addressing the drought situation in the southern African region, especially through strengthening the capacity of the Community in drought mitigation, drought monitoring, early warning and preparedness;

	17.	Invites the donor community and other cooperating partners to participate at a high level in the Annual Consultative Conference of the Southern African Development Community, to be held at Johannesburg on 1 and 2 February 1996;

	18.	Requests the Secretary-General, in consultation with the Executive Secretary of the Southern African Development Community, to continue to intensify contacts aimed at promoting and harmonizing cooperation between the United Nations and the Community;

	19.	Also requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-second session on the implementation of the present resolution.
	96th plenary meeting
	20 December 1995
     1/	See A/38/493, annex I.
     2/	A/50/664.
     3/	Formerly, Southern African Development Coordination Conference.
     4/	See S/24635 and Corr.1, annex.
     5/	See A/CONF.177/20.
     6/	See S/1994/1441.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------



 

 


96-76675	/...


96-76675	/...

A/RES/50/118
Page 1



	A/RES/50/118
	Page 1




96-76675	/...


96-76675	/...

A/RES/50/118
Page 2



	A/RES/50/118
	Page 2




	/...


	/...

A/RES/50/118
Page 4



	A/RES/50/118
	Page 4







