[COMMENT1]UNITED		A
NATIONS




         General Assembly

                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/54/167
                                                                          25 February 2000





Fifty-fourth session
Agenda item 116 (b)


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/54/605/Add.2)]


54/167.   Protection of and assistance to internally displaced persons

    The General Assembly,

    Deeply disturbed by the alarmingly high numbers of internally displaced persons throughout the world who receive inadequate protection and assistance, and conscious of the serious problem this is creating for the international community,

    Conscious of the human rights and the humanitarian dimensions of the problem of internally displaced persons and the responsibilities this poses for States and the international community to explore methods and means better to address their protection and assistance needs,

    Recalling the relevant norms of international human rights instruments, international humanitarian law and analogous refugee law, and emphasizing the need for their better implementation with regard to internally displaced persons,

    Recalling also the emphasis in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993,1 on the need to develop global strategies to address the problem of internal displacement,

    Deploring practices of forced displacement, in particular ethnic cleansing, and their negative consequences for the enjoyment of fundamental human rights by large groups of populations,


    Noting the progress made thus far by the representative of the Secretary-General on internally displaced persons in developing a legal framework, analysing institutional arrangements, undertaking dialogue with Governments and issuing a series of reports on particular country situations, together with proposals for remedial measures,

    Welcoming the cooperation established between the representative of the Secretary-General and the United Nations and other international and regional organizations, in particular the participation of the representative of the Secretary-General in the meetings of the Inter-Agency Standing Committee and its subsidiary bodies, and encouraging further strengthening of this collaboration in order to promote better assistance, protection and development strategies for internally displaced persons,

    Welcoming also the publication and the wide dissemination of the compilation and analysis of legal norms prepared by the representative of the Secretary-General,2 in particular the Guiding Principles on Internal Displacement,3

    Recalling its resolution 52/130 of 12 December 1997,

    1.	Takes note with appreciation of the report of the representative of the Secretary-General on internally displaced persons;4

    2.	Commends the representative of the Secretary-General for the activities undertaken so far, despite the limited resources available to him, and for the catalytic role he continues to play in raising the level of consciousness about the plight of internally displaced persons;

    3.	Encourages the representative of the Secretary-General to continue his analysis of the causes of internal displacement, the needs of those displaced, measures of prevention and ways to increase protection, assistance and solutions for internally displaced persons, including their safe return;

    4.	Also encourages the representative of the Secretary-General to continue to pay specific attention in his review to the protection and assistance needs of women and children, bearing in mind the relevant strategic objective in the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action of the Fourth World Conference on Women;5

    5.	Welcomes the study prepared by the representative of the Secretary-General to promote a comprehensive strategy for better protection, assistance and development for internally displaced persons;6


    6.	Notes the development by the representative of the Secretary-General, on the basis of his compilation and analysis of legal norms, of a comprehensive framework for the protection of internally displaced persons, in particular the Guiding Principles on Internal Displacement;3

    7.	Welcomes the fact that the representative of the Secretary-General has made use of the Guiding Principles in his dialogue with Governments and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, and requests him to continue his efforts in that regard;

    8.	Notes with appreciation that the United Nations agencies, regional and non-governmental organizations are making use of the Guiding Principles in their work, and encourages the further dissemination and application of the Guiding Principles;

    9.	Calls upon all Governments to continue to facilitate the activities of the representative of the Secretary-General, in particular Governments with situations of internal displacement, encourages them to give serious consideration to inviting the representative to visit their countries so as to enable him to study and analyse more fully the issues involved, and thanks those Governments that have already done so;

    10.	Invites Governments to give due consideration, in dialogue with the representative of the Secretary-General, to the recommendations and suggestions addressed to them, in accordance with his mandate, and to inform him of measures taken thereon;

    11.	Urges all relevant United Nations humanitarian assistance and development organizations concerned to enhance their collaboration with the representative of the Secretary-General by developing frameworks of cooperation, especially through the Inter-Agency Standing Committee, to promote protection, assistance and development for internally displaced persons and to provide all possible assistance and support to him;

    12.	Welcomes the efforts to establish a global information system on internally displaced persons, as advocated by the representative of the Secretary-General, and encourages the members of the Inter-Agency Standing Committee to continue to collaborate in those efforts;

    13.	Requests the Secretary-General to give all necessary assistance to the representative to carry out his mandate effectively;

    14.	Requests the representative of the Secretary-General to prepare, for consideration by the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session, a report on the implementation of the present resolution;

    15.	Decides to continue its consideration of the question of protection of and assistance to internally displaced persons at its fifty-sixth session.

	83rd plenary meeting
	17 December 1999

1 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
2 E/CN.4/1998/53 and Add.1 and 2.
3 E/CN.4/1998/53/Add.2.
4 See A/54/409.
5 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.
6 Roberta Cohen and Francis M. Deng, Masses in Flight: The Global Crisis of Internal Displacement (Washington, D.C., Brookings Institution Press, 1998).
[COMMENT1]
<<ODS JOB NO>>N0026578E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/54/167<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------


00 26578	/...


00 26578	/...

A/RES/54/167
Page 2




	A/RES/54/167
	Page 





	/...


	/...





