[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 23 December 2003
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/58/484/Add.2)]

58/242.	Implementation of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 56/196 of 21 December 2001 and 57/259 of 20 December 2002 and other resolutions relating to the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa,1 
	Recognizing the strong commitment of the international community, demonstrated at the World Summit on Sustainable Development2 and the Second Assembly of the Global Environment Facility, to make the Facility available as a financial mechanism of the Convention, pursuant to article 21 of the Convention,
	Recognizing also the role of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention, as the highest decision-making body, in providing guidance on matters regarding the implementation of the Convention and in encouraging financial mechanisms to seek to maximize the availability of resources for affected developing countries, while respecting the respective mandates of the mechanisms,
	Reaffirming that the Convention is an important tool for poverty eradication, particularly in Africa, and recognizing the importance of the implementation of the Convention for meeting the internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration,3
	Reaffirming also the universal membership of the Convention, and acknowledging that desertification and drought are problems of a global dimension, in that they affect all regions of the world,
	Expressing its deep appreciation and gratitude to the Government of Cuba for hosting the sixth session of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention in Havana from 25 August to 5 September 2003,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;4 
	2.	Welcomes the decision of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa, at its sixth session, to accept the Global Environment Facility as a financial mechanism of the Convention, pursuant to article 21 of the Convention;
	3.	Also welcomes the decision of the Council of the Global Environment Facility at its meeting, held in Washington, D.C., from 14 to 16 May 2003, to establish a new operational programme on sustainable land management, and, in that regard, urges the Executive Secretary, in collaboration with the Managing Director of the Global Mechanism, to consult with the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Global Environment Facility, with a view to preparing and agreeing upon a memorandum of understanding, as mandated by the Conference of the Parties, for the consideration of and adoption by the Conference of Parties and the Council of the Global Environment Facility;
	4.	Further welcomes the outcome of the Second Assembly of the Global Environment Facility, held in Beijing from 16 to 18 October 2002, in particular the decision to designate land degradation as a new focal area of the Facility, which will, inter alia, support the implementation of the Convention;
	5.	Notes with appreciation the increased number of affected developing country parties that have adopted their national, subregional and regional action programmes, and urges affected developing countries that have not yet done so to accelerate the process of elaboration and adoption of their action programmes, with a view to finalizing them as soon as possible;
	6.	Invites affected developing countries to place the implementation of their action programmes to combat desertification high among their priorities in their dialogue with their development partners;
	7.	Calls upon affected parties, with the collaboration of relevant multilateral organizations, including the Global Environment Facility implementation agencies, to integrate desertification into their strategies for sustainable development;
	8.	Urges the international community to take effective measures for the implementation of the Convention through bilateral and multilateral cooperation programmes;
	9.	Urges the United Nations funds and programmes, the Bretton Woods institutions, the donor countries and other development agencies to integrate actions in support of the Convention in their strategies to support the achievement of internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration;3
	10.	Welcomes the strengthened cooperation between the secretariat of the Convention and the Global Mechanism through the elaboration and implementation of a joint work plan aimed at maximizing the impact of resources and actions, avoiding duplication and overlap and tapping into the expertise, added value and network of each organization in a collaborative manner as action programmes are implemented;
	11.	Invites all parties to pay promptly and in full the contributions required for the core budget of the Convention for the biennium 2002-2003, and urges all parties that have not yet paid their contributions for the year 1999 and/or the biennium 2000-2001 to do so as soon as possible in order to ensure continuity in the cash flow required to finance the ongoing work of the Conference of the Parties, the secretariat and the Global Mechanism;
	12.	Calls upon Governments, and invites multilateral financial institutions, regional development banks, regional economic integration organizations and all other interested organizations, as well as non-governmental organizations and the private sector, to contribute generously to the General Fund, the Supplementary Fund and the Special Fund, in accordance with the relevant paragraphs of the financial rules of the Conference of the Parties,5 and welcomes the financial support already provided by some countries;
	13.	Takes note of Conference of the Parties decision 23/COP.6 of 5 September 2003 on the programme and budget for the biennium 2004-2005,6 as an ongoing process of the Conference of the Parties to undertake a comprehensive review of the activities of the secretariat, as defined in article 23, paragraph 2, of the Convention;
	14.	Requests the Secretary-General to make provision for the sessions of the Conference of the Parties and its subsidiary bodies, including the seventh ordinary session of the Conference and the meetings of its subsidiary bodies, in his proposal for the programme budget for the biennium 2004-2005;
	15.	Also requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session on the implementation of the present resolution;
	16.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-ninth session the sub-item entitled "Implementation of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa".
79th plenary meeting
23 December 2003
1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1954, No. 33480.
2 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex, and resolution 2, annex.
3 See resolution 55/2.
4 A/58/158.
5 ICCD/COP (1)/11/Add.1 and Corr.1, decision 2/COP.1, annex, paras. 7-11.
6 See ICCD/COP(6)/11/Add.1.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0350904E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/58/242<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/58/242General AssemblyDistr.: General
11 March 2004Fifty-eighth session
Agenda item 94 (b)

03 50904

A/RES/58/242

A/RES/58/242

2

3

