[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 23 December 2003
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/58/481/Add.6)]

58/204.	Commodities


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 57/236 of 20 December 2002, and stressing the urgent need to ensure its full implementation,
	Recalling also the United Nations Millennium Declaration adopted by heads of State and Government on 8 September 2000,1
	Taking note of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2001-20102 and the Least Developed Countries Report, 2002,3
	Taking note also of the Ministerial Declaration of the Fourth Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization, held at Doha from 9 to 14 November 2001,4
	Taking note further of the Monterrey Consensus of the International Conference on Financing for Development,5
	Taking note of the targets set out in the Rome Declaration on World Food Security and the Plan of Action of the World Food Summit6 and the outcome document of the World Food Summit: five years later,7 which reaffirms the pledge to end hunger,
	Taking note also of the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation"),8
	Taking note further of the report of the Trade and Development Board on its fiftieth session9 and the report of the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development on world commodity trends and prospects,10 containing recommendations for specific actions relating to the particular needs and problems of commodity-dependent developing countries,
	Mindful of the opportunity that the eleventh session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, to be held in São Paulo, Brazil, from 13 to 18 June 2004, will offer for the further consideration of proposals to address commodity issues within the framework of the links among trade, investment and finance,
	Mindful also that, in 2004, the International Monetary Fund will review its role in assisting low-income countries over the medium term,
	Taking note of the summary by the President of the General Assembly of the open-ended panel of the Assembly on commodities,11
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Meeting of Eminent Persons on Commodity Issues, held at Geneva on 22 and 23 September 2003,12 and expresses appreciation for the work of the eminent persons;
	2.	Emphasizes the need for efforts by the developing countries that are heavily dependent on primary commodities to continue to promote a domestic policy and an institutional environment that encourage diversification and liberalization of the trade and export sectors and enhance competitiveness;
	3.	Encourages donor Governments and organizations to increase their financial and technical support for activities aimed at addressing commodity issues, in particular the needs and problems of commodity-dependent developing countries;
	4.	Stresses the importance of a speedy resumption and successful conclusion of the work programme adopted at the Fourth Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization,4 taking into account the needs of the commodity-dependent developing countries;
	5.	Invites the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and other relevant bodies and organs of the United Nations system to continue to mainstream and accord high priority to programmes on commodity-related issues within their respective mandates;
	6.	Welcomes regular consideration of commodity issues by the Trade and Development Board of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development;
	7.	Invites non-governmental organizations, civil society and the private sector to initiate programmes of assistance and other innovative initiatives in support of commodity-dependent developing countries;
	8.	Notes the relevance to appropriate governing bodies in the United Nations system and to international commodity bodies of the report of the Meeting of Eminent Persons on Commodity Issues, as well as the summary of discussions in the Trade and Development Board and the Second Committee of the General Assembly, which highlight the importance of finding lasting solutions to the problems faced by commodity-dependent developing countries in their pursuit of the internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration;1
	9.	Urges Governments and invites international financial institutions to continue to assess the effectiveness, including the operationalization and user-friendliness, of the systems for compensatory financing of export-earnings shortfalls, and in this regard stresses the importance of empowering developing-country commodity producers to insure themselves against risk, including natural disasters;
	10.	Invites donor countries and development partners to support the efforts of commodity-dependent developing countries to add value to their products, and reiterates the importance of making progress on the Doha work programme to ensure the sustainability of those efforts;
	11.	Requests the Secretary-General to undertake further open and transparent discussions with all relevant stakeholders on enhancing the impact of the set of existing instruments to support commodity-dependent developing countries in their efforts to diversify their exports, overcome supply-side constraints, strengthen institutions and build knowledge and technical capacity;
	12.	Calls upon the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and invites other relevant bodies and organs of the United Nations system, as well as other relevant international organizations, to strengthen coherently and within their respective mandates their capacity-building and technical cooperation activities in the fields of policy design and implementation, institution-building, management and utilization of commodity revenues, management of price risk and improvement of supply capacities, including the ability to satisfy quality and other requirements for market entry, and to enhance activities aimed at South-South cooperation in the field of commodities, share experiences and identify best practices for dealing with oversupply situations;
	13.	Invites the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and all relevant international organizations to continue to analyse trends in commodities and their impact on the development of commodity-dependent developing countries, including on debt sustainability;
	14.	Invites the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the Common Fund for Commodities and all other relevant organizations to provide useful, timely, accurate, comprehensive and user-friendly information and analysis on commodities and to enable the use of this information by commodity-dependent developing countries;
	15.	Requests the Department of Public Information of the Secretariat to undertake, within existing budgetary resources, initiatives and activities to raise awareness of the commodities issue and keep it a high priority of Governments, the international community, media, academia and all other relevant stakeholders;
	16.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session a report on the implementation of the present resolution, taking into account the provisions of Assembly resolution 57/236.
78th plenary meeting
23 December 2003
1 See resolution 55/2.
2 See A/CONF.191/13, chap. II.
3 United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.D.13.
4 See A/C.2/56/7, annex.
5 Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico, 18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
6 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, Report of the World Food Summit, 13-17 November 1996 (WFS 96/REP), part one, appendix.
7 Ibid., Report of the World Food Summit: five years later, 10-13 June 2002, part one, appendix; see also A/57/499, annex.
8 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 2, annex.
9 A/58/15 (Part V). For the final text, see Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 15 .
10 A/57/381, annex.
11 A/58/615, annex.
12 A/58/401.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0350682E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/58/204<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/58/204General AssemblyDistr.: General
4 February 2004Fifty-eighth session
Agenda item 91 (g)

03 50682

A/RES/58/204

A/RES/58/204

4

3

