[SM1]UNITED		A
NATIONS




         General Assembly

                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/54/217*
                                                                          21 March 2000





Fifty-fourth session
Agenda item 100 


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Second Committee (A/54/588/Add.7)]


54/217.	Enhancing complementarities among international instruments related to environment and sustainable development

    The General Assembly,

    Recalling the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 211 adopted at its nineteenth special session, in particular part IV thereof, entitled "International institutional arrangements",

    Recalling also its resolutions 53/186 of 15 December 1998, on international institutional arrangements related to environment and development, and 53/242 of 28 July 1999, on the report of the Secretary-General on environment and human settlements,

    Taking note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General on international institutional arrangements related to environment and development,2

    Taking note of decision 20/28 on promoting interlinkages among global environmental issues and human needs, adopted on 4 February 1999 by the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme,3
    
    Emphasizing that policy decisions under the respective conventions are taken by the conferences of the parties thereto, which are autonomous governing bodies,

    Noting that various conventions related to environment and sustainable development are at different stages of implementation, and recognizing the role of the General Assembly in fostering progress in the implementation of environmental and environment-related conventions and of the commitments contained therein,

    Noting with appreciation the relevant ongoing work on the implementation of environmental and environment-related conventions at the national, bilateral, regional and international levels,

    Reaffirming the need, as stipulated in part IV of the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21, for greater coherence in various intergovernmental organizations and processes by means of better policy coordination at the intergovernmental level, as well as for continued and more concerted efforts to enhance collaboration among the secretariats of relevant decision-making bodies,

    Emphasizing the need for environmental conventions to continue to pursue sustainable development objectives that are consistent with their provisions and to be fully responsive to Agenda 21,4

    1.	Encourages the conferences of the parties to, and the permanent secretariats of, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change,5 the Convention on Biological Diversity6 and the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, particularly in Africa,7 to examine further appropriate opportunities and measures to strengthen their complementarities and to improve scientific assessments of ecological linkages among the three conventions;
                         
    2.	Stresses the need for the integrated consideration of linkages, both among sectors and between sectoral and cross-sectoral aspects of Agenda 21;4

    3.	Emphasizes the importance of facilitating and supporting the enhancement of linkages and coordination within and among environmental and environment-related conventions, inter alia, by the United Nations Environment Programme, with full respect for the status of the secretariats of the conventions and the autonomous decision-making prerogatives of the conferences of the parties to the conventions concerned, and, in this regard, supports the proposal of the Secretary-General concerning the establishment of an environmental management group for the purpose of enhancing inter-agency coordination in the areas of environment and human settlements, as stipulated in resolution 53/242;

    4.	Notes with appreciation all the progress made in the implementation of resolution 53/186;
    
    5.	Encourages the secretariats of the various environmental and environment-related conventions and international organizations, with full respect for the status of the secretariats of the conventions and the autonomous decision-making prerogatives of the conferences of the parties to the conventions concerned, to strengthen cooperation with a view to facilitating progress in the implementation of those conventions at the international, regional and national levels by:

    (a)	Identifying opportunities for complementarity of activities undertaken to facilitate the implementation of commitments made by the parties to the various conventions;

    (b)	Encouraging the carrying out of further scientific analyses by relevant international organizations, such as the United Nations Environment Programme, the secretariats of the conventions, their subsidiary bodies, the United Nations Secretariat and relevant international scientific bodies, in order to identify possible activities with potential multiple benefits and to bring them to the attention of the conferences of the parties;

    (c)	Promoting more effective and coherent support from international organizations and financial institutions and mechanisms for national action aimed at the implementation of the conventions, in particular in the area of capacity-building;

    (d)	Addressing practical issues, such as more effective exchange of information, enhanced awareness-raising and streamlining of national reporting;

    (e)	Supporting, upon request, efforts being made at the national level towards adopting an integrated and holistic approach to the implementation of environmental and environment-related conventions;

    (f)	Bringing relevant issues to the attention of the General Assembly and relevant intergovernmental bodies for the consideration of Member States and the formulation of agreed policy recommendations, with a view to promoting a more holistic approach;

    6.	Requests the Secretary-General, in consultation with the Executive Director of the United Nations Environment Programme and the executive secretaries of the conventions, to prepare a report on the implementation of the present resolution and to submit it to the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session for consideration under the item entitled "Environment and sustainable development".

	87th plenary meeting
	22 December 1999

* Reissued for technical reasons.
1 Resolution S-19/2, annex.
2 A/54/468.
3 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 25 (A/54/25), annex.
4 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigenda), vol. I: Resolutions adopted by the Conference, resolution 1, annex II.
5 A/AC.237/18 (Part II)/Add.1 and Corr.1, annex I.
6 See United Nations Environment Programme, Convention on Biological Diversity (Environmental Law and Institution Programme Activity Centre), June 1992.
7 A/49/84/Add.2, annex, appendix II.
[SM1]
<<ODS JOB NO>>N0035130E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/54/217*<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------


00 35130	/...


00 35130	/...

A/RES/54/217
Page 2




	A/RES/54/217
	Page 





	/...


	/...





