[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 22 December 2006
[without reference to a Main Committee (A/61/L.23/Rev.1 and Add.1)]
61/229.	New Partnership for Africa's Development: progress in implementation and international support


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 57/2 of 16 September 2002 on the United Nations Declaration on the New Partnership for Africa's Development, 
	Recalling also its resolution 57/7 of 4 November 2002 on the final review and appraisal of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s and support for the New Partnership for Africa's Development and resolutions 58/233 of 23 December 2003, 59/254 of 23 December 2004 and 60/222 of 23 December 2005 entitled "New Partnership for Africa's Development: progress in implementation and international support", 
	Recalling further the 2005 World Summit Outcome,1 including the recognition of the need to meet the special needs of Africa, 
	Bearing in mind that African countries have primary responsibility for their own economic and social development and that the role of national policies and development strategies cannot be overemphasized, and also the need for their development efforts to be supported by an enabling international economic environment, and in this regard recalling the support given by the International Conference on Financing for Development to the New Partnership,2
	Stressing the need to implement various commitments by the international community regarding the economic and social development of Africa, 
	1.	Welcomes the fourth consolidated report of the Secretary-General;3
	2.	Reaffirms its full support for the implementation of the New Partnership for Africa's Development;4
	3.	Recognizes the progress made in the implementation of the New Partnership as well as regional and international support for the New Partnership, while acknowledging that much needs to be done in its implementation; 
	4.	Reaffirms the resolve to provide assistance for prevention and care, with the aim of ensuring an AIDS-, malaria- and tuberculosis-free generation in Africa, and of achieving as closely as possible the goal of universal access by 2010 to HIV/AIDS treatment in African countries, to encourage pharmaceutical companies to make drugs, including antiretroviral drugs, that are affordable and accessible in Africa and to ensure increased bilateral and multilateral assistance, where possible on a grant basis, to combat malaria, tuberculosis and other infectious diseases in Africa through the strengthening of health systems; 
	5.	Reaffirms its full support for the implementation of the Declaration of Commitment on HIV/AIDS, adopted at the twenty-sixth special session of the General Assembly on 27 June 2001,5 and the Political Declaration on HIV/AIDS, adopted by the Assembly on 2 June 2006;6

I
Actions by African countries and organizations
	6.	Welcomes the progress made by the African countries in fulfilling their commitments in the implementation of the New Partnership to deepen democracy, human rights, good governance and sound economic management, and encourages African countries, with the participation of stakeholders, including civil society and the private sector, to intensify their efforts in this regard by developing and strengthening institutions for governance, creating an environment conducive to involving the private sector, including small and medium-size firms, in the New Partnership implementation process and to attracting foreign direct investment for the development of the region; 
	7.	Also welcomes the good progress that has been achieved in implementing the African Peer Review Mechanism, in particular the completion of the peer review process in some countries, further welcomes the progress in implementing the recommendations of those reviews, and in this regard urges African States to consider joining the Mechanism process as soon as possible and to strengthen the Mechanism process for its efficient performance; 
	8.	Further welcomes and appreciates the continuing and increasing efforts of African countries to mainstream a gender perspective and the empowerment of women in the implementation of the New Partnership; 
	9.	Stresses that conflict prevention, management and resolution and post-conflict consolidation are essential for the achievement of the objectives of the New Partnership, and welcomes in this regard the cooperation and support granted by the United Nations and development partners to the African regional and subregional organizations in the implementation of the New Partnership; 
	10.	Welcomes the efforts by African countries to achieve food and nutrition security by adopting appropriate strategies inspired by the Comprehensive Africa Agricultural Development Programme and by debates at various summits, such as at the New Partnership's Fish for All Summit, held in Abuja from 22 to 25 August 2005, and the Africa Fertilizer Summit, endorsed by the African Union on 29 August 2005 and held from 9 to 13 June 2006, and the New Partnership's Food Security Summit, held in Abuja from 4 to 7 December 2006; 
	11.	Emphasizes the importance for African countries to continue to coordinate, on the basis of national strategies and priorities, all types of external assistance in order to integrate effectively such assistance into their development processes; 
	12.	Recognizes the important role that African regional economic communities can play in the implementation of the New Partnership, and in this regard encourages African countries and the international community to give regional economic communities the necessary support to strengthen their capacity; 
	13.	Supports the ongoing efforts by the African Union to improve the coordination between the New Partnership secretariat, the African Union Commission, the regional economic communities and African States;
	14.	Encourages the establishment of national institutional mechanisms for further domestication and integration of the priorities and objectives of the New Partnership in national policies and programmes; 
	
II
Response of the international community
	15.	Welcomes the efforts by development partners to strengthen cooperation with the New Partnership; 
	16.	Also welcomes the various important initiatives of Africa's development partners in recent years, and emphasizes in this regard the importance of coordination in such initiatives on Africa; 
	17.	Recognizes the important role that South-South cooperation can play in supporting Africa's development efforts, including implementation of the New Partnership, and in this regard welcomes the convening of the Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation on 4 and 5 November 2006 and the 
Africa-Latin America Summit, held in Abuja on 30 November and 1 December 2006; 
	18.	Welcomes the ongoing initiatives on the follow-up to the second Asia-Africa summit, held in Jakarta on 22 and 23 April 2005, aimed at promoting greater partnership and cooperation between Africa and other regions; 
	19.	Urges continued support of measures to address the challenges of poverty eradication and sustainable development in Africa including, as appropriate, debt relief, improved market access, support for the private sector and entrepreneurship, enhanced official development assistance and increased flows of foreign direct investment, and transfer of technology; 
	20.	Reiterates the need for all countries and relevant multilateral institutions to continue efforts to enhance coherence in their trade policies towards African countries, and acknowledges the importance of efforts to fully integrate African countries into the international trading system through initiatives such as building Africa's capacity to compete and the provision of assistance to address the adjustment challenges of trade liberalization; 
	21.	Calls for a comprehensive and sustainable solution to the external debt problems of African countries, including cancellation or restructuring for heavily indebted African countries not part of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative that have unsustainable debt burdens, and emphasizes the importance of debt sustainability; 
	22.	Welcomes the recent pledges by the Group of Eight countries to double by 2010 official development assistance to Africa, looks forward to the realization of those pledges, and urges donors to continue to improve the quality of aid in accordance with the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness: Ownership, Harmonization, Alignment, Results and Mutual Accountability, adopted at the High-level Forum on the question of "Joint Progress towards Enhanced Aid Effectiveness: Harmonization, Alignment, Results", held in Paris from 28 February to 2 March 2005, and to ensure that the increase in official development assistance translates into the actual flow of financial resources to developing countries; 
	23.	Recognizes the need for national Governments and the international community to make continued efforts to increase the flow of new and additional resources for financing for development from all sources, public and private, domestic and foreign, to support the development of African countries; 
	24.	Welcomes the efforts by development partners to align their financial and technical support to Africa more closely to the priorities of the New Partnership, as reflected in national poverty reduction strategies or in similar strategies, and encourages development partners to increase their efforts in this regard; 
	25.	Invites developed countries to promote investment by their private sectors in Africa, to help African countries attract investments and promote policies conducive to attracting domestic and foreign investment, such as encouraging private financial flows and promoting and maintaining macroeconomic stability, to encourage and facilitate the transfer of the technology needed to African countries on favourable terms, including on concessional and preferential terms, as mutually agreed, and to assist in strengthening human and institutional capacities for the implementation of the New Partnership, consistent with its priorities and objectives and with a view to furthering Africa's development at all levels; 
	26.	Requests the United Nations system to continue to provide assistance to the African Union and the New Partnership secretariat and to African countries in developing projects and programmes within the scope of the priorities of the New Partnership; 
	27.	Invites the Secretary-General, as a follow-up to the 2005 World Summit, to urge the United Nations development system to assist African countries in implementing quick-impact initiatives through, inter alia, the Millennium Villages Project; 
	28.	Decides to hold within existing resources a high-level meeting on "Africa's development needs: state of implementation of various commitments, challenges and the way forward" during its sixty-third session, the focus and modalities of which will be decided upon at its sixty-second session; 
	29.	Requests the Secretary-General to promote greater coherence in the work of the United Nations system in support of the New Partnership, on the basis of the agreed clusters; 
	30.	Also requests the Secretary-General to continue to take measures to strengthen the Office of the Special Adviser on Africa in order to enable it to effectively fulfil its mandate, including monitoring and reporting on progress related to meeting the special needs of Africa; 
	31.	Further requests the Secretary-General to submit a comprehensive report on the implementation of the present resolution to the General Assembly at its 
sixty-second session on the basis of inputs from Governments, organizations of the United Nations system and other stakeholders in the New Partnership, such as the private sector and civil society.

84th plenary meeting
22 December 2006
1 See resolution 60/1.
2 See Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico,
18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
3 A/61/212.
4 A/57/304, annex.
5 Resolution S-26/2, annex.
6 Resolution 60/262, annex.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0650811E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/61/229<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

1
    

1

United NationsA/RES/61/229General AssemblyDistr.: General
16 March 2007Sixty-first session
Agenda item 62 (a)

06-50811

A/RES/61/229

A/RES/61/229

2

5

