[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/57/532/Add.4)]
57/259.	Implementation of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, particularly in Africa


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 56/196 of 21 December 2001 and other resolutions relating to the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, particularly in Africa,1 
	Expressing its deep appreciation to the Government of Italy for the organization of the first session of the Committee for the Review of the Implementation of the Convention in Rome, at the headquarters of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, from 11 to 22 November 2002, 
	Taking into account the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development2 and the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation"),3
	Noting with interest the partnership initiatives voluntarily undertaken by some Governments, international organizations and major groups and announced at the Summit, 
	Welcoming the outcomes of the Second Assembly of the Global Environment Facility, held in Beijing from 16 to 18 October 2002, particularly the decision on making land degradation, primarily desertification and deforestation, a new focal area of the Facility,
	Recognizing the strong commitment of the international community, demonstrated at the World Summit on Sustainable Development and the Second Assembly of the Global Environment Facility, to make the Facility available as a financial mechanism of the Convention, pursuant to article 21 of the Convention, and in this regard encourages the Conference of the Parties to the Convention, as the supreme body of the Convention, to take the appropriate decision to that effect at its next ordinary session in 2003,
	Expressing its deep appreciation for the generous offer of the Government of Cuba to host the sixth ordinary session of the Conference of the Parties, to be held at Havana from 25 August to 5 September 2003,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;4 
	2.	Welcomes the decision taken by the Second Assembly of the Global Environment Facility that the Facility shall be available to serve as a financial mechanism of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, particularly in Africa,1 pursuant to article 21 of the Convention, if the Conference of the Parties to the Convention should so decide, and in this regard notes with satisfaction that the Assembly of the Global Environment Facility has requested the Council of the Facility to consider any such decision of the Conference of the Parties with a view to making the necessary arrangements; 
	3.	Invites the Conference of the Parties at its sixth session, in response to the call of the World Summit on Sustainable Development and the decision of the Second Assembly of the Global Environment Facility, to consider making the Facility a financial mechanism of the Convention as a means of promoting the availability of financial mechanisms, pursuant to article 21 of the Convention, while recognizing the complementary roles of the Facility and the Global Mechanism in providing and mobilizing resources for the elaboration and implementation of action programmes;
	4.	Encourages the Conference of the Parties and the Council and Assembly of the Global Environment Facility to continue to collaborate closely and effectively to facilitate the financing of the successful implementation of the Convention by supporting financial mechanisms such as the Facility, so as to fully achieve the objectives of the Convention;
	5.	Invites the Council of the Global Environment Facility at its May 2003 meeting to finalize and adopt the operational programme for land degradation, particularly desertification and deforestation;
	6.	Emphasizes that, in the light of the ongoing assessment of the implementation of the Convention, the affected developing countries that are parties to the Convention need the full and effective support of the Global Environment Facility, within its mandate, and other partners for capacity-building and other activities which assist them in meeting their obligations under the Convention;
	7.	Welcomes the successful and substantial third replenishment of the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund which will provide additional resources necessary to enable the Facility to continue to be responsive to the needs and concerns of its recipient countries;
	8.	Calls upon all countries and other entities in a position to do so to make additional contributions to the Global Environment Facility;
	9.	Notes with appreciation the increased number of developing countries that are parties to the Convention and that have adopted their national, subregional and regional action programmes, and urges the affected parties that have not yet done so to accelerate the process of elaboration and adoption of their action programmes, with a view to finalizing them as soon as possible; 
	10.	Invites affected developing countries to place the implementation of their action programmes to combat desertification high among their priorities in their dialogue with their development partners; 
	11.	Notes with satisfaction the steps being taken by affected developing countries that are parties to the Convention, with the assistance of international organizations and bilateral development partners, to implement the Convention and the efforts being made to promote the participation of all actors of civil society in the elaboration and implementation of national action programmes to combat desertification, and in that regard encourages countries to cooperate at the subregional and regional levels, as appropriate;
	12.	Welcomes the strengthened cooperation between the secretariat of the Convention and the Global Mechanism, and encourages further efforts in that regard for the effective implementation of the Convention; 
	13.	Calls upon the international community to continue to contribute to the implementation of action programmes through, inter alia, the conclusion of partnership agreements as well as the bilateral and multilateral cooperation programmes that are available to implement the Convention, including contributions from non-governmental organizations and the private sector, and to support the efforts of the developing countries to implement the Convention; 
	14.	Invites all parties to pay promptly and in full the contributions required for the core budget of the Convention for the biennium 2002-2003, and urges all parties that have not yet paid their contributions for the year 1999 and/or the biennium 2000-2001 to do so as soon as possible in order to ensure continuity in the cash flow required to finance the ongoing work of the Conference of the Parties, the secretariat and the Global Mechanism;
	15.	Notes the ongoing work of the liaison group of the secretariats and officers of the relevant subsidiary bodies of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change,5 the Convention to Combat Desertification and the Convention on Biological Diversity,6 and encourages continuing cooperation to promote complementarities among the three secretariats while respecting their independent legal status; 
	16.	Invites the United Nations Development Programme to implement decision 2000/23 of 29 September 2000 of its Executive Board,7 pertaining to the cooperation between the secretariat of the Convention and the United Nations Development Programme, in order to mainstream activities to combat desertification at the national, subregional and regional levels;
	17.	Calls upon Governments, and invites multilateral financial institutions, regional development banks, regional economic integration organizations and all other interested organizations, as well as non-governmental organizations and the private sector, to contribute generously to the General Fund, the Supplementary Fund and the Special Fund, in accordance with the relevant paragraphs of the financial rules of the Conference of the Parties,8 and welcomes the financial support already provided by some countries; 
	18.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session on the implementation of the present resolution; 
	19.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session the sub-item entitled "Implementation of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, particularly in Africa".

78th plenary meeting
20 December 2002
1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1954, No. 33480.
2 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
3 Ibid., resolution 2, annex.
4 A/57/177.
5 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1771, No. 30822.
6 Ibid., vol. 1760, No. 30619.
7 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2000, Supplement No. 15 (E/2000/35), part four.
8 ICCD/COP (1)/11/Add.1 and Corr.1, decision 2/COP.1, annex, paras. 7-11.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0255642E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/57/259<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

4
    

4

United NationsA/RES/57/259General AssemblyDistr.: General
27 February 2003Fifty-seventh session
Agenda item 87 (d)

02 55642

A/RES/57/259

A/RES/57/259

4

3

