[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 3 November 2008
[without reference to a Main Committee (A/63/L.12 and Add.1)]
63/14.	Cooperation between the United Nations and the Council of Europe


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling the Agreement between the Council of Europe and the Secretariat of the United Nations signed on 15 December 1951 and the Arrangement on Cooperation and Liaison between the Secretariats of the United Nations and the Council of Europe of 19 November 1971,
	Recalling also its previous resolutions on cooperation between the United Nations and the Council of Europe,
	Recalling further the sixtieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,1 in 2008, and noting the sixtieth anniversary of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms,2 in 2010,
	Acknowledging the contribution of the Council of Europe, at the European level, to the protection and strengthening of human rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy and the rule of law through its standards, principles and monitoring mechanisms, as well as to the effective implementation of all relevant international legal instruments of the United Nations,
	Taking note of the contribution of the Council of Europe to the universal periodic review by the Human Rights Council of the situation of human rights in States members of the Council of Europe,
	Welcoming the declaration of the Council of Europe to improve the protection of human rights defenders and promote their activities within the European sphere, 
	Acknowledging the contribution of the Council of Europe to the development of international law, and noting that a number of legal instruments of the Council are open to the participation of States of other regions, 
	Acknowledging also the continued interest of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in the ongoing reform process of the United Nations,
	Welcoming the increasingly close relations between the United Nations and the Council of Europe,
	Noting with appreciation the report of the Secretary-General,3
	1.	Calls for the reinforcement of cooperation and synergies with the Council of Europe regarding the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, inter alia, the promotion of democracy and the rule of law, the prevention of torture, the fight against trafficking in human beings, the fight against racism, discrimination, xenophobia and intolerance, the promotion of gender equality and the protection of the rights of persons belonging to minorities;
	2.	Recognizes the important role of the European Court of Human Rights in protecting human rights as the guardian of the implementation of the European Convention on Human Rights,2 which applies to the eight hundred million individuals in the forty-seven States members of the Council of Europe, and invites the Human Rights Council and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to strengthen their cooperation with the Council of Europe, including its Commissioner for Human Rights, in promoting respect for human rights, while encouraging close cooperation with the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on human rights defenders;
	3.	Encourages further cooperation, where appropriate, between the United Nations and the Council of Europe through their mechanisms regarding the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment;
	4.	Supports the development of cooperation, where appropriate, between the United Nations Peacebuilding Commission and the Council of Europe, with a view to promoting post-conflict reconstruction and development and the consolidation of peace, with full respect for human rights and the rule of law;
	5.	Takes note with appreciation of the entry into force on 1 February 2008 of the Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings,4 to which any non-member State of the Council of Europe may accede after having obtained unanimous consent of the parties to the Convention, commends the enhanced cooperation between the United Nations and the Council of Europe in this regard, and expresses its appreciation for the preparation of a joint study on trafficking in organs and tissues, including trafficking in persons for the purpose of the removal of organs;
	6.	Encourages further cooperation between the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the Council of Europe in the field of nationality, in particular in the prevention and reduction of statelessness, and in the protection and promotion of the rights of refugees, asylum-seekers and internally displaced persons;
	7.	Also encourages further cooperation between the United Nations and the Council of Europe in the area of democracy and good governance, and in particular with regard to the International Day of Democracy, inter alia, through the Venice Commission and the Forum for the Future of Democracy, and through the strengthening of links between the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development and the Council of Europe Project on Education for Democratic Citizenship and Human Rights; 
	8.	Welcomes the signing of a joint declaration between the United Nations Children's Fund and the Council of Europe to further cooperation on the protection and promotion of the rights of the child;
	9.	Notes with appreciation the Council of Europe Campaign to Combat Violence against Women, including Domestic Violence, and calls for increased cooperation regarding all forms of violence against women, in the framework of the Secretary-General's campaign to end violence against women;
	10.	Recognizes the fruitful cooperation between the United Nations missions and the field offices of the Council of Europe;
	11.	Takes note of the contribution of the Council of Europe to the implementation of Security Council resolutions 1373 (2001) of 28 September 2001 and 1624 (2005) of 14 September 2005, and welcomes the entry into force on 1 June 2007 of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism5 and on 1 May 2008 of the Council of Europe Convention on Laundering, Search, Seizure and Confiscation of the Proceeds from Crime and on the Financing of Terrorism,6 and encourages the Council of Europe to promote the implementation of the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy7 while protecting human rights;
	12.	Encourages further cooperation between the two organizations regarding the fight against transnational organized crime, cybercrime, corruption and money-laundering, as well as regarding the protection of the rights of victims of crime and the promotion of human rights and the rule of law in the information society, and takes note of the contribution of the Council of Europe to the Internet Governance Forum and the Council of Europe Convention on Cybercrime8 and the Additional Protocol thereto;9
	13.	Notes the interaction between the Council of Europe and the Sixth Committee of the General Assembly and with the International Law Commission, and encourages cooperation between the Council of Europe and the Rule of Law Coordination and Resource Group with the purpose of strengthening the rule of law; 
	14.	Encourages further cooperation between the United Nations and its specialized agencies, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and the World Health Organization and the Council of Europe;
	15.	Reiterates its support for cooperation between the two organizations in the social field, in particular concerning the protection and promotion of the rights of persons with disabilities, combating poverty and social exclusion and ensuring equal access to economic, social and cultural rights for all;
	16.	Encourages joint action between the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and the Council of Europe in the context of the follow-up to the Faro Platform, takes note of the intention of the Council of Europe to work in close cooperation with the Alliance of Civilizations, a forum for intercultural dialogue created under the auspices of the United Nations, on the basis of a memorandum of understanding, and welcomes the role of the North-South Centre;
	17.	Requests the Secretaries-General of the United Nations and the Council of Europe to combine their efforts in seeking answers to global challenges, within their respective mandates, and calls upon all relevant United Nations bodies to support the enhancement of cooperation with the Council of Europe in the areas mentioned above;
	18.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-fifth session the sub-item entitled "Cooperation between the United Nations and the Council of Europe", and requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session a report on cooperation between the United Nations and the Council of Europe in implementation of the present resolution.

37th plenary meeting
3 November 2008
1 Resolution 217 A (III).
2 Council of Europe, European Treaty Series, No. 5.
3 A/63/228-S/2008/531 and Corr.1, sect. II.G.
4 Council of Europe Treaty Series, No. 197.
5 Ibid., No. 196.
6 Ibid., No. 198.
7 Resolution 60/288.
8 Council of Europe, European Treaty Series, No. 185.
9 Ibid., No. 189.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0847163E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/63/14<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

4
    

4

United NationsA/RES/63/14General AssemblyDistr.: General
16 December 2008Sixty-third session
Agenda item 114 (g)

08-47163

A/RES/63/14

A/RES/63/14

2

3

