<<ODS JOB NO>>N9776213E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/51/181<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>

UNITED						A
NATIONS



			General Assembly



									Distr.
									GENERAL

									A/RES/51/181
									20 January 1997






Fifty-first session
Agenda item 97 (b)


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Second Committee (A/51/605/Add.2)]


51/181.Special session for the purpose of an overall review and appraisal of the implementation of Agenda 21

	The General Assembly,

	Recalling its resolution 47/190 of 22 December 1992, in which it decided to convene, not later than 1997, a special session for the purpose of an overall review and appraisal of the implementation of Agenda 21,1 

	Reaffirming its resolution 50/113 of 20 December 1995, as the agreed basis that determines the modalities for the preparations for the special session, including the relevant role of the Commission on Sustainable Development, as the functional commission of the Economic and Social Council mandated to follow up the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, as well as the role of other relevant organizations and bodies of the United Nations system,

	Strongly reaffirming that the special session for the overall review and appraisal of the implementation of Agenda 21 will be undertaken on the basis of and in full respect of the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development,2 


	Taking note of the progress report of the Secretary-General on the state of preparations for the 1997 special session,3 and taking into account the views and concerns expressed by delegations to the Commission on Sustainable Development at its fourth session, the Economic and Social Council at its substantive session of 1996 and the Second Committee of the General Assembly at its fifty-first session,

	1.	Decides to convene the special session envisaged in its resolution 47/190 for a duration of one week, from 23 to 27 June 1997, at the highest political level of participation;

	2.	Decides also that the Commission on Sustainable Development will devote the forthcoming meeting of its Ad Hoc Open-ended Inter-sessional Working Group, to be held from 24 February to 7 March 1997, to preparing for the special session, and that the Commission will devote its fifth session, to be held from 7 to 25 April 1997 as a negotiating meeting, to final preparations for the special session for the overall review and appraisal of the implementation of Agenda 21;

	3.	Recognizes the important contributions made by major groups, including non-governmental organizations, at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development and in the implementation of its recommendations, and the need for their effective participation in preparations for the special session, as well as the need to ensure appropriate arrangements, taking into account the practice and experience gained at the Conference, for their substantive contributions to and active involvement in the preparatory meetings and the special session, and in that context invites the President of the General Assembly, in consultation with Member States, to propose to Member States appropriate modalities for the effective involvement of major groups in the special session;

	4.	Decides to invite States members of the specialized agencies which are not members of the United Nations to participate in the work of the special session in the capacity of observers;

	5.	Stresses that there should be no attempt to renegotiate Agenda 21, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, the Non-legally Binding Authoritative Statement of Principles for a Global Consensus on the Management, Conservation and Sustainable Development of All Types of Forests4 or other internationally recognized intergovernmental agreements in the field of environment and sustainable development, and that discussions at both the preparatory meetings and the special session should focus on the fulfilment of commitments and the further implementation of Agenda 21 and related post-Conference outcomes;

	6.	Requests the Secretariat to provide all relevant reports called for in General Assembly resolution 50/113, including all other reports related to the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, for consideration by the Ad Hoc Open-ended Inter-sessional Working Group of the Commission on Sustainable Development and by the Commission at its fifth session, in accordance with the six-week rule and preferably not later than 15 January 1997;

	7.	Requests the Secretary-General to ensure that preparations for the comprehensive report are conducted in accordance with paragraph 13 (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Assembly resolution 50/113;

	8.	Invites the Secretary-General to include in the reports requested in Assembly resolution 50/113 for the preparation of the special session information on the application of the principles contained in the Rio Declaration, and invites the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme to include in its report to the General Assembly at its special session information and views on ways to address, in a forward-looking manner, national, regional and international application of these principles and the implementation of Agenda 21 in the interrelated issues of environment and development;

	9.	Decides to consider at its special session, inter alia, the application of the principles of the Rio Declaration at all levels - national, regional and international - and to make relevant recommendations thereon;

	10.	Requests that other contributions to the special session, in addition to those identified in its resolution 50/113, include submissions from relevant bodies and organizations of the United Nations, including the Ad Hoc Intergovernmental Panel on Forests of the Commission on Sustainable Development and the Global Environmental Facility, information on the outcomes of United Nations conferences held since the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, such as the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,5 regional and subregional conferences, summits and other inter-sessional meetings on sustainable development organized by countries, and information on the activities of relevant United Nations conventions on the environment and development and the global freshwater assessment, and that account be taken of the activities organized by major groups, including business and industry and non-governmental organizations;

	11.	Requests the Secretary-General, in the report on cross-sectoral issues of Agenda 21 for the special session, to give special consideration, without prejudice to other priority issues that may be identified in the preparatory process, to combating poverty and to health, financial resources and mechanisms, education, science, transfer of technology, consumption and production patterns, trade, environment and sustainable development, major groups, demographic dynamics, capacity-building and decision-making;

	12.	Also requests the Secretary-General, in the reports for the special session, to give consideration, where appropriate and without prejudice to other priority issues that may be identified in the preparatory process, to linkages between the cross-sectoral issues of Agenda 21 and relevant sectoral issues;


	13.	Welcomes the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II), held at Istanbul from 3 to 14 June 1996, and its relevance to the field of sustainable development, calls for effective interaction and exchange of information on work carried out by the Commission on Sustainable Development and the Commission on Human Settlements, and invites the Commission on Human Settlements to make a contribution to the special session in connection with the implementation of the Habitat Agenda6 adopted in Istanbul;

	14.	Invites Governments and regional organizations to cooperate with the Secretary-General in preparing country profiles for review at the fifth session of the Commission on Sustainable Development, as envisaged in paragraph 13 of General Assembly resolution 50/113;

	15.	Also invites Governments to assist developing countries, particularly the least developed among them, in participating fully in the special session and its preparatory process, and to make timely contributions to the Trust Fund for Support of the Work of the Commission on Sustainable Development;

	16.	Requests the Secretary-General to enhance the public information programme of the United Nations so as to raise global awareness in a balanced manner, in all countries, of both the special session and the work undertaken by the United Nations in the follow-up to the Conference, and invites all Governments to promote widespread dissemination, at all levels, of the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and to make voluntary contributions to support the public outreach activities of the United Nations for the special session;

	17.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-second session the sub-item entitled "Special session for the purpose of an overall review and appraisal of the implementation of Agenda 21", and requests the Secretary-General to submit to it at that session a report on the special session.

	86th plenary meeting
	16 December 1996
     1 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992 (A/CONF.151/26/Rev.1 (Vol. I and Vol.I/Corr.1, Vol. II, Vol. III and Vol. III/Corr.1)) (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigenda), vol. I: Resolutions Adopted by the Conference,  resolution 1, annex II.
     2 Ibid., annex I.
     3 A/51/420.
     4 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992 (A/CONF.151/26/Rev.1 (Vol. I and Vol. I/Corr.1, Vol. II, Vol. III and Vol. III/Corr.1)) (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigenda), vol. I: Resolutions Adopted by the Conference,  resolution 1, annex III.
     5 Report of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Bridgetown, Barbados, 25 April-6 May 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.94.I.18 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
     6 A/CONF.165/14, chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------



 

 


97-76213	/...


97-76213	/...

A/RES/51/181
Page 1



	A/RES/51/181
	Page 1




97-76213	/...


97-76213	/...

A/RES/51/181
Page 2



	A/RES/51/181
	Page 2




	/...


	/...

A/RES/51/181
Page 4



	A/RES/51/181
	Page 4







