[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 18 December 2009
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/64/432)]
64/132.	Follow-up to the Second World Assembly on Ageing


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 57/167 of 18 December 2002, in which it endorsed the Political Declaration1 and the Madrid International Plan of Action on Ageing, 2002,2 its resolution 58/134 of 22 December 2003, in which it took note, inter alia, of the road map for the implementation of the Madrid Plan of Action, and its resolutions 60/135 of 16 December 2005, 61/142 of 19 December 2006, 62/130 of 18 December 2007 and 63/151 of 18 December 2008,
	Recognizing that, in many parts of the world, awareness of the Madrid Plan of Action remains limited or non-existent, which limits the scope of implementation efforts,
	Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General,3
	1.	Encourages Governments to pay greater attention to building capacity to eradicate poverty among older persons, in particular older women, by mainstreaming ageing issues into poverty eradication strategies and national development plans, and to include both ageing-specific policies and ageing-mainstreaming efforts in their national strategies;
	2.	Encourages Member States to strengthen their efforts to develop national capacity to address their national implementation priorities identified during the review and appraisal of the Madrid International Plan of Action on Ageing, 2002,2 and invites Member States that have not done so to consider a step-by-step approach to developing capacity that includes the setting of national priorities, the strengthening of institutional mechanisms, research, data collection and analysis and the training of necessary personnel in the field of ageing; 
	3.	Also encourages Member States to overcome obstacles to the implementation of the Madrid Plan of Action by devising strategies that take into account the entirety of the human life-course and foster intergenerational solidarity in order to increase the likelihood of greater success in the years ahead; 
	4.	Further encourages Member States to place particular emphasis on choosing national priorities that are realistic, feasible and have the greatest likelihood of being achieved in the years ahead and to develop targets and indicators to measure progress in the implementation process; 
	5.	Recommends that Member States increase awareness-raising of the Madrid Plan of Action, including by strengthening networks of national focal points on ageing, working with the regional commissions and enlisting the help of the Department of Public Information of the Secretariat to seek increased attention to ageing issues;
	6.	Encourages Governments that have not done so to designate focal points for handling follow-up of national plans of action on ageing; 
	7.	Invites Governments to conduct their ageing-related policies through inclusive and participatory consultations with relevant stakeholders and social development partners, in the interest of developing effective policies creating national policy ownership and consensus-building; 
	8.	Calls upon Governments to ensure, as appropriate, conditions that enable families and communities to provide care and protection to persons as they age and to evaluate improvement in the health status of older persons, including on a gender-specific basis, and to reduce disability and mortality;
	9.	Encourages Governments to continue their efforts to implement the Madrid Plan of Action and to mainstream the concerns of older persons into their policy agendas, bearing in mind the crucial importance of family intergenerational interdependence, solidarity and reciprocity for social development and the realization of all human rights for older persons, and to prevent age discrimination and provide social integration; 
	10.	Invites Member States to ensure that older persons have access to information about their rights so as to enable them to participate fully and justly in their societies and to claim full enjoyment of all human rights;
	11.	Calls upon Member States to develop their national capacity for monitoring and enforcing the rights of older persons, in consultation with all sectors of society, including organizations of older persons through, inter alia, national institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights where applicable;
	12.	Also calls upon Member States to strengthen and incorporate a gender perspective into all policy actions on ageing, as well as to eliminate and address discrimination on the basis of age and gender, and recommends that Member States engage with all sectors of society, including women's groups and organizations of older persons, in changing negative stereotypes about older persons, in particular older women, and promote positive images of older persons;
	13.	Further calls upon Member States to address the well-being and adequate health care of older persons, as well as any cases of neglect, abuse and violence against older persons, by designing more effective prevention strategies and stronger laws and policies to address these problems and their underlying factors;
	14.	Encourages Member States to consider how best the international framework of norms and standards can ensure the full enjoyment of the rights of older persons, including, as appropriate, the possibility of instituting new policies, instruments or measures to further improve the situation of older persons;
	15.	Calls upon Member States to take concrete measures to further protect and assist older persons in emergency situations, in accordance with the Madrid Plan of Action; 
	16.	Stresses that, in order to complement national development efforts, enhanced international cooperation is essential to support developing countries in implementing the Madrid Plan of Action, while recognizing the importance of assistance and the provision of financial assistance; 
	17.	Encourages the international community to enhance international cooperation to support national efforts to eradicate poverty, in keeping with internationally agreed goals, in order to achieve sustainable social and economic support for older persons; 
	18.	Also encourages the international community to support national efforts to forge stronger partnerships with civil society, including organizations of older persons, academia, research foundations, community-based organizations, including caregivers, and the private sector, in an effort to help to build capacity on ageing issues;
	19.	Encourages the international community and the relevant agencies of the United Nations system, within their respective mandates, to support national efforts to provide funding for research and data-collection initiatives on ageing in order to better understand the challenges and opportunities presented by population ageing and to provide policymakers with more accurate and more specific information on gender and ageing; 
	20.	Recommends that Member States reaffirm the role of United Nations focal points on ageing, increase technical cooperation efforts, expand the role of the regional commissions on ageing issues and provide added resources for those efforts, facilitate the coordination of national and international non-governmental organizations on ageing and enhance cooperation with academia on a research agenda on ageing; 
	21.	Reiterates the need for additional capacity-building at the national level in order to promote and facilitate further implementation of the Madrid Plan of Action, as well as the result of its first review and appraisal cycle, and in that connection encourages Governments to support the United Nations Trust Fund for Ageing to enable the Department of Economic and Social Affairs of the Secretariat to provide expanded assistance to countries, upon their request; 
	22.	Recommends that ongoing efforts to achieve the internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration,4 take into account the situation of older persons;
	23.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session a report on the implementation of the present resolution, and also requests the Secretary-General to submit to the Assembly at its sixty-fifth session, taking into consideration the discussions and conclusions of the Commission for Social Development at its forty-eighth session, a comprehensive report on the current status of the social situation, well-being, development and rights of older persons at the national and regional levels. 

65th plenary meeting
18 December 2009
1 Report of the Second World Assembly on Ageing, Madrid, 8-12 April 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.IV.4), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
2 Ibid., annex II.
3 A/64/127.
4 See resolution 55/2.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0946975E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/64/132<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/64/132General AssemblyDistr.: General
5 February 2010Sixty-fourth session
Agenda item 61 (c)

09-46975
*0946975*

A/RES/64/132

A/RES/64/132

4

3

