[hj1]UNITED									A
NATIONS



             General Assembly


                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/54/132
                                                                          2 February 2000
                                                                          



Fifty-fourth session
Agenda item 108


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/54/597)]



54/132.  International cooperation against the world drug problem

    The General Assembly,

    Recalling its resolutions 52/92 of 12 December 1997 and 53/115 of 9 December 1998,

    Reaffirming its commitment to the outcome of the twentieth special session of the General Assembly devoted to countering the world drug problem together, held in New York from 8 to 10 June 1998, and welcoming the continued determination of Governments to overcome the world drug problem by a full and balanced application of national, regional and international strategies to reduce the demand for, production of and trafficking in illicit drugs, as reflected in the Political Declaration,1 the Declaration on the Guiding Principles of Drug Demand Reduction2 and the measures to enhance international cooperation to counter the world drug problem,3


    Gravely concerned that, despite continued increased efforts by States, relevant international organizations, civil society and non-governmental organizations, there is a global expansion of the drug problem, which constitutes a serious threat to the health, safety and well-being of all mankind, in particular young people, in all countries, undermines development, including efforts to reduce poverty, socio-economic and political stability and democratic institutions, entails an increasing economic cost for Governments, also threatens the national security and sovereignty of States, as well as the dignity and hope of millions of people and their families, and causes irreparable loss of human lives,

    Concerned that the demand for, production of and trafficking in illicit drugs and psychotropic substances continue to threaten seriously the socio-economic and political systems, stability, national security and sovereignty of an increasing number of States, especially those involved in conflicts and wars, and that trafficking in drugs could make conflict resolution more difficult,

    Deeply alarmed by the growing and spreading violence and economic power of criminal organizations and terrorist groups engaged in drug-trafficking activities and other criminal activities, such as money-laundering and illicit traffic in arms, precursors and essential chemicals, and by the increasing transnational links between them, and recognizing the need for international cooperation and implementation of effective strategies on the basis of the outcome of the twentieth special session of the General Assembly, which are essential to achieving results against all forms of transnational criminal activities,

    Deeply convinced that the special session made a significant contribution to a new comprehensive framework for international cooperation, based on an integrated and balanced approach with strategies, measures, methods, practical activities, goals and specific targets to be met, that all States, the United Nations system and other international organizations must implement them with concrete actions and that the international financial institutions, such as the World Bank, and the regional development banks should be invited to include action against the world drug problem in their programmes, taking into account the priorities of States,

    Convinced that civil society, including non-governmental organizations, can make an effective contribution to and should play an active role in addressing the world drug problem,

    Emphasizing the importance of the adoption of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Declaration on the Guiding Principles of Drug Demand Reduction annexed to the present resolution, which introduces a global approach, recognizing a new balance between illicit supply and demand reduction, under the principle of shared responsibility, aims at preventing the use of drugs and at reducing the adverse consequences of drug abuse, ensuring that special attention is paid to vulnerable groups, in particular youth, and constitutes one of the pillars of the new global strategy and an important initiative of the United Nations Decade against Drug Abuse, 1991-2000, and reaffirming the need for demand reduction programmes,

    Emphasizing equally the importance of supply reduction as an integral part of a balanced drug control strategy under the principles enshrined in the Action Plan on International Cooperation on the Eradication of Illicit Drug Crops and on Alternative Development,4 reaffirming the need for alternative development programmes that are sustainable, welcoming the achievements of some States on their way to eradicating illicit drug crops, and inviting all other States to make similar efforts,


    Underlining the role of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs as the principal United Nations policy-making body on drug control issues, the leadership role and commendable work of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme as the main focus for concerted multilateral action and the important role of the International Narcotics Control Board as an independent monitoring authority, as set out in the international drug control treaties,

    Recognizing the efforts of all countries, in particular those that produce narcotic drugs for scientific and medical purposes, and of the International Narcotics Control Board in preventing the diversion of such substances to illicit markets and in maintaining production at a level consistent with licit demand, in line with the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 19615 and the Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1971,6

    Acknowledging that there are links, under certain circumstances, between poverty and the increase in the illicit production of and trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and that the promotion of the economic development of countries affected by the illicit drug trade requires appropriate measures, including strengthened international cooperation in support of alternative and sustainable development activities in the affected areas of those countries, which have as their objectives the reduction and elimination of illicit drug production,

    Stressing that respect for all human rights is and must be an essential component of measures taken to address the drug problem,

    Ensuring that women and men benefit equally, and without any discrimination, from strategies directed against the world drug problem, through their involvement in all stages of programmes and policy-making,

    Recognizing that the use of the Internet poses new opportunities and challenges to international cooperation in combating drug abuse and illicit production and trafficking, and recognizing also the need for increased cooperation among States and the exchange of information, including with reference to national experiences, on how to counteract the promotion of drug abuse and illicit drug trafficking through this instrument and on ways to use the Internet for information concerning drug demand reduction,


I

RESPECT FOR THE PRINCIPLES ENSHRINED IN THE CHARTER OF THE UNITED NATIONS AND INTERNATIONAL LAW IN THE FIGHT AGAINST THE WORLD DRUG PROBLEM

    1.	Reaffirms that the fight against the world drug problem is a common and shared responsibility which must be addressed in a multilateral setting, requiring an integrated and balanced approach, and must be carried out in full conformity with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and international law, and in particular with full respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States, the principle of non-intervention in the internal affairs of States and all human rights and fundamental freedoms;


    2.	Calls upon all States to take further action to promote effective cooperation at the international and regional levels in the efforts to combat the world drug problem so as to contribute to a climate conducive to achieving that end, on the basis of the principles of equal rights and mutual respect;

    3.	Urges all States to ratify or accede to and implement all the provisions of the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961 as amended by the 1972 Protocol,7 the Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 19716 and the United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of 1988;8


II

ACTION PLAN FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION
ON THE GUIDING PRINCIPLES OF DRUG DEMAND REDUCTION

    1.	Adopts the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Declaration on the Guiding Principles of Drug Demand Reduction as contained in the annex to the present resolution;

    2.	Requests the Executive Director of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme to report to the Commission on Narcotic Drugs at its forty-third session on the follow-up to the Action Plan;

    3.	Urges all Member States to implement the Action Plan in their respective national, regional and international actions and to strengthen their national efforts to fight the use of illicit drugs among their population, in particular among children and youth;


III

INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION TO COUNTER THE WORLD DRUG PROBLEM


    1.	Urges competent authorities, at the international, regional and national levels, to implement the outcome of the twentieth special session, within the agreed time-frames, in particular the high-priority practical measures at the international, regional or national level, as indicated in the Political Declaration,1 the Declaration on the Guiding Principles of Drug Demand Reduction2 and the Action Plan for its implementation and the measures to enhance international cooperation to counter the world drug problem,3 including the Action Plan against Illicit Manufacture, Trafficking and Abuse of Amphetamine-type Stimulants and Their Precursors,9 the measures to prevent the illicit manufacture, import, export, trafficking, distribution and diversion of precursors used in the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances,10 the measures to promote judicial cooperation,11 the measures to counter money-laundering12 and the Action Plan on International Cooperation on the Eradication of Illicit Drug Crops and on Alternative Development;4

    2.	Stresses its resolve to strengthen the United Nations machinery for international drug control, in particular the United Nations International Drug Control Programme, in order to enable it to fulfil its mandate, and takes note of the recommendations contained in Economic and Social Council resolution 1999/30 of 28 July 1999;

    3.	Renews its commitment to further strengthening international cooperation and substantially increasing efforts to counter the world drug problem, in accordance with the obligations of States under the United Nations drug control conventions, on the basis of the general framework given by the Global Programme of Action,13 and the outcome of the special session, and taking into account experience gained;

    4.	Calls upon all States to adopt effective measures, including national laws and regulations, to implement the mandates and recommendations of the Global Programme of Action, to strengthen national judicial systems and to carry out effective drug control activities in cooperation with other States in accordance with those international instruments, in order to implement the outcome and the goals of the special session, within the agreed time-frame of 2003 and 2008;

    5.	Calls upon the relevant United Nations bodies, the specialized agencies, the international financial institutions and other concerned intergovernmental and international organizations, within their mandates, and all actors of civil society, notably non-governmental organizations, community-based organizations, sports associations, the media and the private sector, to continue their close cooperation with Governments in their efforts to promote and implement the Global Programme of Action, the outcome of the special session and the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Declaration on the Guiding Principles of Drug Demand Reduction, including through public information campaigns; 

    6.	Urges Governments, the relevant United Nations bodies, the specialized agencies and other international organizations to assist and support, upon request, transit States, in particular developing countries in need of such assistance and support, aiming at enhancing their capacity to fight illicit trafficking of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, taking into account national plans and initiatives, and emphasizes the importance of subregional, regional and international cooperation in combating illicit drug trafficking; 


    7.	Reaffirms that preventing the diversion of chemicals from legitimate commerce to illicit drug manufacture is an essential component of a comprehensive strategy against drug abuse and trafficking, which requires the effective cooperation of exporting, importing and transit States, takes note of the progress made in developing practical guidelines to prevent such diversion of chemicals, including those of the International Narcotics Control Board and the recommendations on implementing article 12 of the 1988 Convention, and calls upon all States to adopt and implement measures to prevent the diversion of chemicals to illicit drug manufacture, in cooperation with competent international and regional bodies and, if necessary and to the extent possible, with the private sector in each State, in accordance with the objectives targeted for 2003 and 2008 in the Political Declaration of the special session and the resolution on the control of precursors adopted at the special session;10

    8.	Calls upon States in which cultivation and production of illicit drug crops occur to establish or reinforce, where appropriate, national mechanisms to monitor and verify illicit crops, and requests the Executive Director of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme to report to the Commission on Narcotic Drugs at its forty-third session, in March 2000, on the follow-up to the Action Plan on International Cooperation on the Eradication of Illicit Drug Crops and on Alternative Development; 

    9.	Requests the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, with the support of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme, to continue its work expeditiously, within the established time-frames, on the elaboration of guidelines to facilitate biennial reporting by Governments on the implementation of the Global Programme of Action and progress achieved in meeting the goals and targets for 2003 and 2008, as set out in the Political Declaration of the special session, and to encourage an efficient collection of reliable data, an increase in the number of Governments that report updated information on a regular basis and an improvement in the quality of their responses, as well as the avoidance of the duplication of activities; 

    10.	Calls upon the Commission on Narcotic Drugs to mainstream a gender perspective into all its policies, programmes and activities, and requests the Secretariat to integrate a gender perspective into all documentation prepared for the Commission;

    11.	Recalls the World Programme of Action for Youth to the Year 2000 and Beyond adopted by the General Assembly on 14 December 1995,14 notes with satisfaction the commitment of young people to a drug-free society made at various forums, stresses the importance of youth continuing to contribute their experiences and to participate in the decision-making processes and, in particular, putting into effect the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Declaration on the Guiding Principles of Drug Demand Reduction, and, in this context, recalls the holding of the World Conference of Ministers Responsible for Youth in Lisbon from 8 to 12 August 1998,15 and also recalls the holding of the third World Youth Forum of the United Nations system in Braga, Portugal, from 2 to 7 August 1998;16

    12.	Calls upon States to adopt effective measures, including possible national legislative measures, and to enhance cooperation to stem the illicit trade in small arms, which, as a result of its close link to the illicit drug trade, is generating extremely high levels of crime and violence within the societies of some States, threatening the national security and the economies of those States;


    13.	Notes the progress achieved in the elaboration of an international convention against transnational organized crime and the three related international instruments, within the framework of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Elaboration of a Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, and urges the Committee to intensify its work in order to complete it in 2000;

    14.	Reaffirms the importance of the achievement of the objectives of the United Nations Decade against Drug Abuse, 1991-2000, under the theme "A global response to a global challenge", by Member States, the United Nations International Drug Control Programme and the United Nations system;


IV

ACTION BY THE UNITED NATIONS SYSTEM

    1.	Reaffirms the role of the Executive Director of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme in coordinating and providing effective leadership for all United Nations drug control activities so as to increase cost-effectiveness and ensure coherence of action, as well as coordination, complementarity and non-duplication of such activities throughout the United Nations system;

    2.	Emphasizes that the multidimensional nature of the world drug problem calls for the promotion of integration and coordination of drug control activities throughout the United Nations system, including in the follow-up to major United Nations conferences; 

    3.	Invites Governments and the United Nations International Drug Control Programme to attach high priority to the improvement of the coordination of United Nations activities related to the world drug problem so as to avoid duplication of such activities, strengthen efficiency and accomplish the goals approved by Governments;

    4.	Urges the specialized agencies, programmes and funds, including humanitarian organizations, and invites multilateral financial institutions, to include action against the world drug problem in their programming and planning processes in order to ensure that the integral and balanced strategy which emerged from the special session devoted to countering the world drug problem together is being addressed;


V

UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL DRUG CONTROL PROGRAMME

    1.	Welcomes the efforts of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme to implement its mandate within the framework of the international drug control treaties, the Comprehensive Multidisciplinary Outline of Future Activities in Drug Abuse Control,17 the Global Programme of Action,13 the outcome of the special session of the General Assembly devoted to countering the world drug problem together and relevant consensus documents;


    2.	Expresses its appreciation to the Programme for the support provided to different States in meeting the objectives of the Global Programme of Action and of the special session, especially in cases where significant and anticipated progress was achieved regarding the objectives targeted for 2003 and 2008;

    3.	Requests the United Nations International Drug Control Programme to continue:

    (a)	To strengthen cooperation with Member States and with United Nations programmes, funds and relevant agencies, as well as other relevant regional organizations and agencies and non-governmental organizations, and to provide, on request, assistance in implementing the outcome of the special session;

    (b)	To strengthen dialogue and cooperation with multilateral development banks and with international financial institutions so that they may undertake lending and programming activities related to drug control in interested and affected countries to implement the outcome of the special session, and to keep the Commission on Narcotic Drugs informed of further progress made in this area;

    (c)	To take into account the outcome of the special session, to include in its report on illicit traffic in drugs an updated assessment of worldwide trends in illicit traffic and transit in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, including methods and routes used, and to recommend ways and means of improving the capacity of States along those routes to deal with all aspects of the drug problem;

    (d)	To publish the World Drug Report, with comprehensive and balanced information about the world drug problem, and to seek additional extrabudgetary resources for its publication in all official languages;

    4.	Urges all Governments to provide the fullest possible financial and political support to the Programme by widening its donor base and increasing voluntary contributions, in particular general-purpose contributions, to enable it to continue, expand and strengthen its operational and technical cooperation activities;

    5.	Urges the International Narcotics Control Board to increase efforts to implement all its mandates under international drug control conventions and to continue to cooperate with Governments, including by offering advice to Member States that request it;

    6.	Notes that the Board needs sufficient resources to carry out all its mandates, and therefore urges Member States to commit themselves in a common effort to assigning adequate and sufficient budgetary resources to the Board, in accordance with Economic and Social Council resolution 1996/20 of 23 July 1996, and emphasizes the need to maintain its capacity, including through the provision of appropriate means by the Secretary-General and adequate technical support by the Programme; 

    7.	Stresses the importance of the meetings of Heads of National Drug Law Enforcement Agencies, in all regions of the world, and the Subcommission on Illicit Drug Traffic and Related Matters in the Near and Middle East of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, and encourages them to continue to contribute to the strengthening of regional and international cooperation, taking into account the outcome of the special session;


    8.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General,18 and, taking into account the promotion of integrated reporting, requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session a comprehensive report on the implementation of the outcome of the twentieth special session, including on the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Declaration on the Guiding Principles of Drug Demand Reduction, and the present resolution.


	 83rd plenary meeting
	17 December 1999


ANNEX

Action Plan for the Implementation of the Declaration on the Guiding Principles
of Drug Demand Reduction


PREAMBLE

1.	In the Political Declaration adopted by the General Assembly at its twentieth special session,1 Member States: 

    (a)	Recognized that demand reduction was an indispensable pillar in the global approach to countering the world drug problem and committed themselves:

(i)	To introducing into their national programmes and strategies the provisions set out in the Declaration on the Guiding Principles of Drug Demand Reduction;2

(ii)	To working closely with the United Nations International Drug Control Programme to develop action-oriented strategies to assist in the implementation of the Declaration;

(iii)	To establishing 2003 as a target date for new or enhanced drug demand reduction strategies and programmes set up in close collaboration with public health, social welfare and law enforcement authorities;

(iv)	To achieving significant and measurable results in the field of demand reduction by 2008;

    (b)	Called upon all States to report biennially to the Commission on Narcotic Drugs on their efforts to meet the above-mentioned goals and targets for 2003 and 2008.


2.	The present Action Plan for the Implementation of the Declaration on the Guiding Principles of Drug Demand Reduction is offered as guidance to Member States in implementing the above-mentioned commitments. Organizations of the United Nations system,19 other international organizations, regional organizations and non-governmental organizations are invited to provide support to Member States in implementing the Action Plan, according to their available resources, specific mandates and the different roles that they are to play in achieving the goals set out in the Declaration.

3.	The Action Plan reflects the emphasis in the Declaration on the need for a comprehensive and balanced approach involving demand reduction and supply reduction, each reinforcing the other, together with the appropriate application of the principle of shared responsibility. It stresses the need for services responsible for prevention, including law enforcement agencies, to transmit the same message and use similar language.

4.	The Action Plan is guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and international law, in particular respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States, non-interference in the internal affairs of States, human rights and fundamental freedoms and the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.20 It allows for flexible approaches to reflect social, cultural, religious and political differences and it acknowledges that efforts to reduce illicit drug demand are at different levels of implementation in different countries.

5.	The Action Plan recognizes that progress to reduce the demand for illicit drugs should be seen in the context of the need for programmes to reduce the demand for substances of abuse. Such programmes should be integrated to promote cooperation among all concerned, should include a wide variety of appropriate interventions, should promote health and social well-being among individuals, families and communities and should reduce the adverse consequences of drug abuse for the individual and for society as a whole.

6.	The Action Plan focuses on the need to design demand reduction campaigns and programmes to meet the needs of the population in general, as well as those of specific population groups, taking into account differences in gender, culture and education and paying special attention to youth.21 Demand reduction efforts should be developed with the participation of target groups, giving special attention to a gender perspective.







I.  THE COMMITMENT

7.	Objective 1. To apply the Declaration on the Guiding Principles of Drug Demand Reduction in order to achieve significant and measurable results in reducing the demand for drugs by 2008 and to report on those results to the Commission on Narcotic Drugs. That would entail the following:

    (a)	Impact. Greater compliance with the spirit and principles of the Declaration and the achievement of significant and measurable results in reducing the demand for drugs;

    (b)	Outputs. Biennial reports by each country on the efforts to implement the Declaration and reduce the demand for drugs and on the results achieved;

    (c)	National action. Applying the Declaration and preparing a biennial report containing measurable results for submission to the Commission;

    (d)	International and regional action. The United Nations International Drug Control Programme to collate national reports and report on its findings to the Commission.

8.	Objective 2. To secure, at the highest political level possible, a long-term commitment to the implementation of a national strategy for reducing illicit drug demand and to establish a mechanism for ensuring full coordination and participation of the relevant authorities and sectors of society. That would entail the following:

    (a)	Impact. Higher priority for and long-term commitment to demand reduction and effective coordination between relevant sectors of society;

    (b)	Outputs. A mechanism for ensuring ongoing commitment to the strategy by: (i) fostering linkages and integration with other relevant plans and programmes, for instance, those concerning health, including public health issues such as those relating to the human immunodeficiency virus, acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and hepatitis C, as well as education, housing, employment, social exclusion, law enforcement and crime prevention; (ii) encouraging the participation of all sectors of society; and (iii) providing for the assessment and reporting of results and refinement of the strategy as necessary;

    (c)	National action. Consultation and cooperation with potential partners in developing multisectoral plans and obtaining long-term commitments coordinated by the appropriate national authorities;

    (d)	International and regional action. The United Nations International Drug Control Programme and other relevant international and regional organizations to provide appropriate assistance in establishing coordination mechanisms for those requesting it.

9.	Objective 3. To develop and implement, by 2003, national strategies fully incorporating the guiding principles set out in the Declaration. That would entail the following:

    (a)	Impact. An integrated, balanced, efficient and effective national strategy for addressing drug issues, with major emphasis on demand reduction;


    (b)	Outputs. A strategy document tailored to national needs, characteristics and cultures, specifying the role of agencies involved, the time-frame for activities and the goals;

    (c)	National action. This would include: (i) developing a national strategy by assessing the problem, defining the needs and resources, establishing priorities and goals, setting time-frames for specific activities and results and determining the roles of the agencies concerned; (ii) implementing the strategy through the development of a national action plan with a multisectoral approach, endorsed by an appropriate national body; and (iii) developing a framework for assessing and reporting results and reporting on the strategy and its implementation to the Commission on Narcotic Drugs;

    (d)	International and regional action. The United Nations International Drug Control Programme and other relevant international and regional organizations to provide guidance and assistance to those requesting it and to set up a database on national drug control strategies.


II.  ASSESSING THE PROBLEM

10.	Objective 4. To assess the causes and consequences of the misuse of all substances in each country and to communicate those causes and consequences to policy makers, planners and the general public in order to develop practical measures, to establish a national system to monitor drug problems and trends and to record and evaluate intervention programmes and their impact on a regular basis using national indicators and, taking into account existing national and regional data systems for monitoring drug problems and trends, as well as the goals and targets established for 2003 and 2008 in the Political Declaration adopted by the General Assembly at its twentieth special session,1 to work towards establishing a core set of regionally and internationally recognized indicators. That would entail the following:

    (a)	Impact. Programmes and policies that are based on precise and timely evidence on the causes and consequences of drug abuse;

    (b)	Outputs. They would include: (i) a regular national report on the current drug situation and trends; and (ii) a periodic assessment of the health, social and economic costs of drug abuse and the benefits associated with different measures and actions, on both the demand and the supply sides;

    (c)	National action. This would include: (i) establishing a national system for data collection and analysis of drug abuse; (ii) undertaking periodic assessments of the costs to society of drug abuse and of the medium- and long-term benefits to society if the problem is reduced; and (iii) using the information for drug policy and programme development;

    (d)	International and regional action. The United Nations International Drug Control Programme and other relevant international and regional organizations: (i) to provide advice and technical assistance to countries requesting it on the establishment of national systems for monitoring the drug abuse problem, including regionally and internationally recognized core indicators; and (ii) to promote the development of methodologies for assessing the costs and consequences of drug abuse and for undertaking cost-benefit analyses of various measures and actions.


11.	Objective 5. To develop research programmes at the national and regional levels in scientific fields concerning drug demand reduction and to disseminate widely the results so that strategies for reducing illicit drug demand may be elaborated on a solid scientific basis. That would entail the following:

    (a)	Impact. Improved drug demand reduction strategies based on scientific evidence;

    (b)	Outputs. Programmes for research on issues related to drug demand reduction;

    (c)	National action. Identifying research needs, developing research programmes, mobilizing the resources required and promoting the application of research findings;

    (d)	International and regional action. The United Nations International Drug Control Programme and other relevant international and regional organizations to encourage research into a wide range of drug demand reduction issues and the dissemination and application of research findings.


III.  TACKLING THE PROBLEM

12.	Objective 6. To identify and develop programmes for reducing illicit drug demand in a wide variety of health and social contexts and to encourage collaboration among those programmes, which should cover all areas of drug abuse prevention, ranging from discouraging the initial use of illicit drugs to reducing the negative health and social consequences of drug abuse, and should include continuing education, not only for all educational levels, beginning at an early age, but also in the workplace, the family and the community, and to develop programmes to make the public aware of the problem of drug abuse and of the full continuum of risks involved in such abuse and to provide information on and services for early intervention, counselling, treatment, rehabilitation, relapse prevention, aftercare and social reintegration to those in need. That would entail the following:

    (a)	Impact. Reduction of drug abuse and related health and social consequences;

    (b)	Outputs. Easily accessible drug demand reduction programmes, integrated into broader health and social programmes, covering where possible the full spectrum of services, including reducing the adverse health and social consequences of drug abuse;

    (c)	National action. Developing and implementing specific demand reduction activities at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels of prevention that meet the needs of various target groups and that are integrated into the health, education and other related sectors;

    (d)	International and regional action. The United Nations International Drug Control Programme and other relevant international and regional organizations to provide guidance and assistance to those requesting it and to facilitate the sharing of information on best strategies.







IV.  FORGING PARTNERSHIPS

13.	Objective 7. To identify how different national and local institutions and organizations may contribute to efforts to reduce illicit drug demand and to promote the linking of those institutions and organizations. That would entail the following:

    (a)	Impact. More efficient utilization of resources and local ownership of programmes;

    (b)	Outputs. Identification of the roles of national and local institutions and organizations and of networking arrangements between them with a view to improving their contribution to and the effectiveness of national strategies;

    (c)	National action. This would include: (i) identifying drug demand reduction programmes run by various agencies, governmental and non-governmental, and defining their role in the national strategy; and (ii) promoting and reinforcing collaboration and networking among them;

    (d)	International and regional action. The United Nations International Drug Control Programme and other relevant international and regional organizations to compile a collection of examples of collaborative and cooperative arrangements that are in place in Member States to promote and reinforce networking and to facilitate the sharing of information on best strategies.


V.  FOCUSING ON SPECIAL NEEDS

14.	Objective 8. To enhance the quality of programmes for reducing illicit drug demand, especially in terms of their relevance to population groups, taking into account their cultural diversity and specific needs, such as gender, age and socially, culturally and geographically marginalized groups. That would entail the following:

    (a)	Impact. Improvement in the quality and relevance of services offered;

    (b)	Outputs. Guidelines for programmes and services, taking into consideration cultural diversity and specific needs;

    (c)	National action. This would include: (i) establishing guidelines for the development and implementation of programmes; and (ii) monitoring and evaluating programmes according to established guidelines in order to improve programme quality and increase cost-effectiveness;

    (d)	International and regional action. The United Nations International Drug Control Programme and other relevant international and regional organizations to promote the development of guidelines and to facilitate the sharing of information among Member States.

15.	Objective 9. To target the particular needs of groups most at risk of abusing drugs, through the development, in cooperation with those groups, of specially designed communication strategies and effective, relevant and accessible programmes. That would entail the following:


    (a)	Impact. Reduction of drug abuse among groups at risk and a reduction in the adverse health and social consequences of drug abuse;

    (b)	Outputs. Development of programmes and communication strategies for specific risk groups, in particular youth;

    (c)	National action. This would include: (i) identifying risk factors and groups at risk and developing programmes and communication strategies in cooperation with such groups to address their specific needs; and (ii) establishing and supporting mechanisms, including networks that facilitate the participation of young people in the design and implementation of programmes intended for them;

    (d)	International and regional action. The United Nations International Drug Control Programme and other relevant international and regional organizations: (i) to promote the participation of target groups in the design of projects and facilitate the sharing of information on best strategies; and (ii) to facilitate the creation of an international network promoting regular contact among youth involved in demand reduction activities and allowing them to stay informed and learn from one another. 

16.	Objective 10. To provide prevention, education, treatment or rehabilitation services to offenders who misuse drugs, whether in prison or in the community, as an addition to or, where appropriate and consistent with the national laws and policies of Member States, as an alternative to punishment or conviction, and to provide, in particular, drug-abusing offenders held in prison with services to enable them to overcome their dependence and to facilitate their reintegration in the community. That would entail the following:

    (a)	Impact. A reduction of drug abuse among offenders and, where appropriate, positive social integration or reintegration;

    (b)	Outputs. Comprehensive drug prevention, education, treatment, rehabilitation and social integration programmes for offenders;

    (c)	National action. Cooperation among institutions and organizations, both governmental and non-governmental, offering health, social, justice, correctional, vocational training and employment services in order to provide preventive care, education, treatment and rehabilitation for offenders and, where appropriate, programmes to enable their integration into the community; 

    (d)	International and regional action. The United Nations International Drug Control Programme and other relevant international and regional organizations to facilitate the sharing of information on best strategies.


VI.  SENDING THE RIGHT MESSAGE

17.	Objective 11. To undertake public information campaigns aimed at the population in general to promote health, raise awareness in society and improve people's understanding of the drug problem in the community and of the need to curb that problem, to evaluate those campaigns by establishing a follow-up system to determine their impact and to carry out research into the requirements of particular population groups, such as parents, teachers, community leaders and drug users, with regard to information on drugs and services. That would entail the following:

    (a)	Impact. Enhanced knowledge and awareness of the drug problem, of the need to take action and of the available support mechanisms;

    (b)	Outputs. Appropriately targeted public information campaigns based on knowledge acquired from research to promote greater awareness of the drug problem and to provide information on available resources and services;

    (c)	National action. Assessing needs and including and evaluating public information activities as part of national drug strategies;

    (d)	International and regional action. The United Nations International Drug Control Programme and other relevant international and regional organizations to facilitate the sharing of information on best strategies. 

18.	Objective 12. To develop information campaigns that are relevant and precise so that they take into account the social and cultural characteristics of the target population. That would entail the following:

    (a)	Impact. Increased knowledge and awareness among drug users and specific social and cultural groups about drugs and the adverse health and social consequences of drug use, as well as the availability of services;

    (b)	Outputs. Effective and culturally appropriate information campaigns that encourage and help drug users to reduce their involvement with drugs and prevent or reduce adverse health and social problems and inform them about available services;

    (c)	National action. Providing information on drugs and drug abuse and on how to obtain help for those most in need, in particular drug users. Information should be based on knowledge acquired from research and developed in collaboration with the target audience;

    (d)	International and regional action. The United Nations International Drug Control Programme and other relevant international and regional organizations to facilitate the sharing of information on best strategies.

19.	Objective 13. To promote information, education and communication programmes for social mediators, for example, political, religious, education, cultural, business and union leaders, peer educators and representatives of non-governmental organizations and the media worldwide, so that they may convey appropriate and accurate messages about drug abuse. That would entail the following:

    (a)	Impact. Enhanced knowledge and skills among social mediators in conveying information about drug abuse;

    (b)	Outputs. Programmes and other activities to inform and educate social mediators and to develop their communication skills; 

    (c)	National action. Developing training strategies for social mediators;


    (d)	International and regional action. The United Nations International Drug Control Programme and other relevant international and regional organizations to facilitate the sharing of information on best strategies in this field. 


VII.  BUILDING ON EXPERIENCE

20.	Objective 14. To train planners and practitioners of governmental agencies, non-governmental organizations, the private sector, and others within the community on a permanent basis in all aspects of demand reduction activities and strategic programming by identifying local, national, subregional and regional human resources and using their experience in the design of programmes in order to guarantee their continuity and to create and strengthen regional, subregional, national and local training and technical resource networks and, with the possible assistance of regional and international organizations, to facilitate the exchange of experiences and expertise by encouraging States to include demand reduction personnel from other States in training programmes that they have developed. That would entail the following:

    (a)	Impact. Improved knowledge and skills of practitioners in demand reduction, facilitating the development of more efficient, effective and sustainable services;

    (b)	Outputs. Strategies for the development and expansion of the pool of technical expertise supporting planning, implementing, monitoring and evaluation of national demand reduction programmes;

    (c)	National action. This would include: (i) identifying those involved in planning and implementing programmes, from planners to practitioners and institutions and individuals involved with service delivery, in order to enhance their capacity to respond to the problem; (ii) supporting the design and implementation of training programmes, reviewed and updated on a regular basis, to form part of a continuing education programme for trainers; and (iii) designing and instituting training programmes for the various sectors involved in demand reduction programmes;

    (d)	International and regional action. The United Nations International Drug Control Programme and other relevant international and regional organizations to facilitate: (i) the sharing of information on best strategies; (ii) the development of guidelines on the development of curricula and training programmes, including distance learning, and assistance for those requesting it; and (iii) the intercountry exchange of experts for training purposes and the participation of foreign personnel in national training programmes developed by Member States.

21.	Objective 15. To evaluate strategies and activities for reducing illicit drug demand and to develop mechanisms for intercountry, regional and interregional advocacy coordination, cooperation and collaboration in order to identify, share and expand best practices and effective activities in the development and implementation of drug demand reduction programmes. That would entail the following:

    (a)	Impact. Demand reduction programmes that are based soundly on validated experience and evidence;


    (b)	Outputs. They would include: (i) domestic evaluation results of strategies and activities and mechanisms for cooperation and data sharing; and (ii) mechanisms for facilitating the exchange of evaluation results and other data assessing the effectiveness of strategies and activities at the domestic, regional and interregional levels;

    (c)	National action. This would include: (i) monitoring and evaluating demand reduction strategies and activities and utilizing the results to inform and improve national plans; and (ii) participating in coordinating mechanisms for intercountry, regional and international exchange of information;

    (d)	International and regional action. The United Nations International Drug Control Programme and other relevant international and regional organizations to facilitate the exchange of information by establishing coordination mechanisms.

22.	Objective 16. To create an international system of information on illicit drug demand reduction by linking existing databases managed by international, regional and national organizations in order to provide a network of information on knowledge and experiences that, to the extent possible, would use the above-mentioned core set of regionally and internationally recognized indicators and to enable comparisons of national experiences to be made. That would entail the following:

    (a)	Impact. Improved access to information, experiences and practices to facilitate the better design of programmes and policies; 

    (b)	Outputs. National, regional and international mechanisms allowing easy access to databases and networks for the exchange of knowledge and experience of demand reduction;

    (c)	National action. Establishing and maintaining databases and facilitating linkages for international networking;

    (d)	International and regional action. The United Nations International Drug Control Programme and other relevant international and regional organizations to participate in the creation of an international mechanism by facilitating networking and linkages between databases.

1 Resolution S-20/2, annex.
2 Resolution S-20/3, annex.
3 Resolution S-20/4.
4 Resolution S-20/4 E.
5 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 520, No. 7515.
6 Ibid., vol. 1019, No. 14956.
7 Ibid., vol. 976, No. 14152.
8 See Official Records of the United Nations Conference for the Adoption of a Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, Vienna, 25 November-20 December 1988, vol. I (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.94.XI.5).
9 Resolution S-20/4 A.
10 See resolution S-20/4 B.
11 Resolution S-20/4 C.
12 Resolution S-20/4 D.
13 See resolution S-17/2, annex.
14 Resolution 50/81, annex.
15 A/53/378, annex I.
16 Ibid., annex II.
17 See Report of the International Conference on Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, Vienna, 17-26 June 1987 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.87.I.18), chap. I, sect. A.
18 A/54/186.
19 This may include, but is not restricted to, the United Nations International Drug Control Programme, the United Nations Development Programme, the Joint United Nations Programme on Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome, the International Labour Organization, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and the World Health Organization, as well as international financial institutions such as the World Bank.
20 Resolution 217 A (III).
21 As expressed, for example, in "The Vision from Banff", drawn up by the Youth Vision Jeunesse Drug Abuse Prevention Forum, held in Banff, Canada, from 14 to 18 April 1998.
[hj1]
<<ODS JOB NO>>N0024686E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/54/132<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------


00 24686	/...


00 24686	/...

A/RES/54/132
Page 




	A/RES/54/132
	Page 





	/...


	/...

A/RES/54/132
Page 




	A/RES/54/132
	Page 








