[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 18 December 2014
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/69/481)] 
69/150.	Intensifying global efforts for the elimination of female genital mutilations


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 53/117 of 9 December 1998, 56/128 of 19 December 2001, 67/146 of 20 December 2012 and 68/146 of 18 December 2013, Commission on the Status of Women resolutions 51/2 of 9 March 2007,1 52/2 of 7 March 20082 and 54/7 of 12 March 20103 and Human Rights Council resolution 27/22 of 26 September 2014,4 and all relevant agreed conclusions of the Commission on the Status of Women,
	Reaffirming that the Convention on the Rights of the Child5 and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,6 together with the Optional Protocols thereto,7 constitute an important contribution to the legal framework for the protection and promotion of the human rights of women and girls,
	Reaffirming also the Beijing Declaration8 and Platform for Action,9 the outcomes of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly, entitled "Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the twenty-first century",10 the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development11 and the Programme of Action of the World Summit for Social Development12 and their 5-, 10-, 15- and 20-year reviews, as well as the United Nations Millennium Declaration,13 and the commitments relevant to women and girls made at the 2005 World Summit14 and reiterated in Assembly resolution 65/1 of 22 September 2010, entitled "Keeping the promise: united to achieve the Millennium Development Goals",
	Recalling the Protocol to the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights on the Rights of Women in Africa, adopted in Maputo on 11 July 2003, which contains, inter alia, undertakings and commitments on ending female genital mutilation and marks a significant milestone towards the abandonment and ending of female genital mutilation,
	Recalling also the decision of the African Union, adopted in Malabo on 1 July 2011, to support the adoption by the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session of a resolution banning female genital mutilation,
	Recalling further the recommendation of the Commission on the Status of Women at its fifty-sixth session that the Economic and Social Council recommend to the General Assembly the adoption of a decision to consider the issue of ending female genital mutilation at its sixty-seventh session under the item entitled "Advancement of women",15
	Recognizing that female genital mutilations constitute irreparable, irreversible harm that impairs the human rights of women and girls, affecting about 100 million to 140 million women and girls worldwide, and that each year an estimated further 3 million girls are at risk of being subjected to the practice throughout the world,
	Reaffirming that female genital mutilations are a harmful practice, constituting a serious threat to the health of women and girls, including their psychological, sexual and reproductive health, increasing their vulnerability to HIV and possibly having adverse obstetric and prenatal outcomes, as well as fatal consequences for the mother and the newborn, and that the abandonment of this harmful practice can be achieved as a result of a comprehensive movement that involves all public and private stakeholders in society, including girls and boys, women and men,
	Concerned about evidence of an increase in the incidence of female genital mutilations being carried out by medical personnel in all regions in which they are practised,
	Recognizing that negative discriminatory stereotypical attitudes and behaviours have direct implications for the status and treatment of women and girls and that such negative stereotypes impede the implementation of legislative and normative frameworks that guarantee gender equality and prohibit discrimination on the basis of sex,
	Recognizing also that the campaign of the Secretary-General entitled "UNiTE to End Violence against Women" and the database on violence against women have contributed to addressing the elimination of female genital mutilations,
	Welcoming the efforts of the United Nations system to end female genital mutilations, in particular the commitment of 10 United Nations entities,16 announced in their joint inter-agency statement of 27 February 2008 on eliminating female genital mutilation, as well as the Joint Programme on Female Genital Mutilation/Cutting: Accelerating Change of the United Nations Population Fund and the United Nations Children's Fund, to accelerate the elimination of the practice,
	Commending the continued efforts and actions undertaken by States, individually and collectively, regional organizations and United Nations agencies for the elimination of female genital mutilation as well as the implementation of its  resolution 67/146,
	Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General,17
	Noting with disappointment, in this regard, the continuing need for the information requested by the General Assembly in its resolution 67/146, which was not provided, concerning the root causes of and factors contributing to the practice of female genital mutilations, its prevalence worldwide and its impact on women and girls, including evidence and data, analysis of progress made to date and action-oriented recommendations for eliminating this practice on the basis of information provided by Member States, relevant actors of the United Nations system working on the issue and other relevant stakeholders,
	Deeply concerned that, despite the increase in national, regional and international efforts and the focus on the abandonment of female genital mutilations, the practice continues to persist in all regions of the world, and is often on the rise for migrant women and girls,
	Deeply concerned also that a tremendous gap in resources continues to exist and that the shortfall in funding has severely limited the scope and pace of programmes and activities for the elimination of female genital mutilations,
	Recalling its resolution 68/309 of 10 September 2014, on the report of the Open Working Group on Sustainable Development Goals,18 in which it decided that the proposal of the Open Working Group contained in the report shall be the main basis for integrating sustainable development goals into the post-2015 development agenda, while recognizing that other inputs will also be considered, in the intergovernmental negotiation process at the sixty-ninth session of the General Assembly, and noting that the report integrates the importance of the elimination of all harmful practices to women and girls, including female genital mutilation,
	1.	Stresses that the empowerment of women and girls is key to breaking the cycle of discrimination and violence and for the promotion and protection of human rights, including the right to the highest attainable standard of mental and physical health, including sexual and reproductive health, and calls upon States parties to fulfil their obligations under the Convention on the Rights of the Child5 and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,6 as well as their commitments to implement the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women,19 the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development,11 the Beijing Platform for Action9 and the outcomes of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly, entitled "Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the twenty-first century",10 and of the special session of the Assembly on children;20
	2.	Calls upon States to place a stronger focus on the development of comprehensive prevention strategies, including the enhancement of educational campaigns, awareness-raising and formal, non-formal and informal education and training in order to promote the direct engagement of girls and boys, women and men and to ensure that all key actors, Government officials, including law enforcement and judicial personnel, immigration officials, health-care providers, civil society, community and religious leaders, teachers, employers, media professionals and those directly working with girls, as well as parents, families and communities, work to eliminate attitudes and harmful practices, in particular all forms of female genital mutilations, that negatively affect women and girls;
	3.	Also calls upon States to strengthen advocacy and awareness-raising programmes, to mobilize girls and boys to take an active part in developing preventive and elimination programmes to address harmful practices, especially female genital mutilations, and to engage local community and religious leaders, educational institutions, the media and families and provide increased financial support to efforts at all levels to end discriminatory social norms and practices;
	4.	Urges States to condemn all harmful practices that affect women and girls, in particular female genital mutilations, whether committed within or outside a medical institution, and to take all necessary measures, especially through educational campaigns, including enacting and enforcing legislation, to prohibit female genital mutilations and to protect women and girls from this form of violence, and to hold perpetrators to account;
	5.	Also urges States to complement punitive measures with awareness-raising and educational activities designed to promote a process of consensus towards the elimination of female genital mutilations, and further urges States to protect and support women and girls who have been subjected to female genital mutilations and those at risk, including by developing social and psychological support services and care, and to explore other remedies, as appropriate, and take measures to improve their health, including sexual and reproductive health, in order to assist women and girls who are subjected to the practice;
	6.	Further urges States, as appropriate, to promote gender-sensitive, empowering educational processes by reviewing and revising school curricula, educational materials and teacher-training programmes and elaborating policies and programmes of zero tolerance for violence against girls, including female genital mutilations, and to further integrate a comprehensive understanding of the causes and consequences of gender-based violence and discrimination against women and girls into education and training curricula at all levels;
	7.	Urges States to ensure that the protection and provision of support to women and girls subject to, or at risk of, female genital mutilation are an integral part of policies and programmes that address the practice and to provide women and girls with coordinated, specialized, accessible and quality multisectoral prevention and response, including education, as well as legal, psychological, health-care and social services, provided by qualified personnel, consistent with the guidelines of medical ethics;
	8.	Calls upon States to ensure that national action plans and strategies on the elimination of female genital mutilations are comprehensive and multidisciplinary in scope and that they include projected timelines for goals and incorporate clear targets and indicators for the effective monitoring, impact assessment and coordination of programmes among all relevant stakeholders and promote their participation, including the participation of affected groups, practising communities and non-governmental organizations, in the development, implementation and evaluation of such plans and strategies;
	9.	Urges States to take, within the general framework of integration policies and in consultation with affected communities, effective and specific targeted measures for refugee women and women migrants and their communities in order to protect girls from female genital mutilations, including when the practice occurs outside the country of residence;
	10.	Calls upon States to develop information and awareness-raising campaigns and programmes to systematically reach the general public, relevant professionals, families and communities, including through the media, featuring television and radio discussions, on the elimination of female genital mutilations;
	11.	Urges States to pursue a comprehensive, culturally sensitive, systematic approach that incorporates a social perspective and is based on human rights and gender-equality principles in providing education and training to families, local community leaders and members of all professions relevant to the protection and empowerment of women and girls in order to increase awareness of and commitment to the elimination of female genital mutilations;
	12.	Also urges States to ensure the national implementation of international and regional commitments and obligations undertaken as States parties to various international instruments protecting the full enjoyment of all human rights and the fundamental freedoms of women and girls;
	13.	Calls upon States to develop policies and regulations to ensure the effective implementation of national legislative frameworks on eliminating discrimination and violence against women and girls, in particular female genital mutilations, and to put in place adequate accountability mechanisms at the national and local levels to monitor adherence to and implementation of these legislative frameworks;
	14.	Also calls upon States to develop unified methods and standards for the collection of data on all forms of discrimination and violence against girls, especially forms that are underdocumented, such as female genital mutilations, to develop additional indicators so as to effectively measure progress in eliminating the practice and to reinforce the sharing of good practices relating to the prevention and the abandonment of the practice at the subregional and regional levels;
	15.	Urges States to allocate sufficient resources to the implementation of policies and programmes and legislative frameworks aimed at eliminating female genital mutilations;
	16.	Calls upon States to develop, support and implement comprehensive and integrated strategies for the prevention of female genital mutilations, including the training of social workers, medical personnel, community and religious leaders and relevant professionals, and to ensure that they provide competent, supportive services and care to women and girls who are at risk of or who have undergone female genital mutilations and encourage them to report to the appropriate authorities cases in which they believe women or girls are at risk;
	17.	Also calls upon States to support, as part of a comprehensive approach to eliminate female genital mutilations, programmes that engage local community practitioners of female genital mutilations in community-based initiatives for the abandonment of the practice, including, where relevant, the identification by communities of alternative livelihoods for them;
	18.	Calls upon the international community, the relevant United Nations entities and civil society and international financial institutions to continue to actively support, through the allocation of increased financial resources and technical assistance, targeted comprehensive programmes that address the needs and priorities of women and girls at risk of or subjected to female genital mutilations;
	19.	Calls upon the international community to strongly support, including through increased financial support, a second phase of the Joint Programme on Female Genital Mutilation/Cutting: Accelerating Change of the United Nations Population Fund and the United Nations Children's Fund, which will run until 2017, as well as national programmes focused on the elimination of female genital mutilations;
	20.	Stresses that some progress has been made in combating female genital mutilations in a number of countries using a common coordinated approach that promotes positive social change at the community, national, regional and international levels, and recalls the goal set out in the United Nations inter-agency statement16 that female genital mutilations are to be eliminated within a generation, with some of the main achievements being obtained by 2015, in line with the Millennium Development Goals;
	21.	Encourages men and boys to take positive initiatives and to work in partnership with women and girls to combat violence and discriminatory practices against women and girls, in particular female genital mutilations, through networks, peer programmes, information campaigns and training programmes;
	22.	Calls upon States, the United Nations system, civil society and all stakeholders to continue to observe 6 February as the International Day of Zero Tolerance for Female Genital Mutilation and to use the day to enhance awareness-raising campaigns and to take concrete actions against female genital mutilations;
	23.	Calls upon States to improve the collection and analysis of quantitative and qualitative data and, where appropriate, to collaborate with existing data collection systems, which are crucial for evidence-based legal and policy development, programme design and implementation and the monitoring of the elimination of female genital mutilation;
	24.	Acknowledges that intensifying efforts for the elimination of female genital mutilations is needed and, in this regard, the importance of giving the issue due consideration in the elaboration of the post-2015 development agenda;
	25.	Requests the Secretary-General to ensure that all relevant organizations and bodies of the United Nations system, in particular the United Nations Population Fund, the United Nations Children's Fund, the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN-Women), the World Health Organization, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the United Nations Development Programme and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, individually and collectively, take into account the protection and promotion of the rights of women and girls against female genital mutilations in their country programmes, as appropriate and in accordance with national priorities, in order to further strengthen their efforts in this regard;
	26.	Renews its request to the Secretary-General that he submit to the General Assembly, at its seventy-first session, an in-depth multidisciplinary report on the root causes of and factors contributing to the practice of female genital mutilations, its prevalence worldwide and its impact on women and girls, including evidence and data, analysis of progress made to date and action-oriented recommendations for eliminating this practice on the basis of information provided by Member States, relevant actors of the United Nations system working on the issue and other relevant stakeholders.

73rd plenary meeting
18 December 2014

1 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2007, Supplement No. 7 (E/2007/27), chap. I, sect. D.
2 Ibid., 2008, Supplement No. 7 (E/2008/27), chap. I, sect. D.
3 Ibid., 2010, Supplement No. 7 and corrigendum (E/2010/27 and Corr.1), chap. I, sect. D.
4 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 53A and corrigendum (A/69/53/Add.1 and Corr.1), chap. IV, sect. A.
5 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1577, No. 27531.
6 Ibid., vol. 1249, No. 20378.
7 Ibid., vols. 2171 and 2173, No. 27531; and resolution 66/138, annex; and United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2131, No. 20378. 
8 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
9 Ibid., annex II.
10 Resolution S-23/2, annex, and resolution S-23/3, annex.
11 Report of the International Conference on Population and Development, Cairo, 5-13 September 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.95.XIII.18), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
12 Report of the World Summit for Social Development, Copenhagen, 6-12 March 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.8), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
13 Resolution 55/2.
14 See resolution 60/1.
15 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2012, Supplement No. 7 and corrigendum (E/2012/27 and Corr.1), chap. I, sect. A. 
16 Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, United Nations Development Programme, Economic Commission for Africa, United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, United Nations Population Fund, Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, United Nations Children's Fund, United Nations Development Fund for Women and World Health Organization. 
17 A/69/211.
18 A/68/970 and Corr.1.
19 Resolution 48/104.
20 Resolution S-27/2, annex.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1470520E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/69/150<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/69/150General AssemblyDistr.: General
17 February 2015Sixty-ninth session
Agenda item 27 (a)

14-67594 (E)
*1467594*Please recycle 

A/RES/69/150Intensifying global efforts for the elimination of female genital mutilations

Intensifying global efforts for the elimination of female genital mutilationsA/RES/69/150

6/7

7/7

