[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/57/544)]
57/163.	Implementation of the outcome of the World Summit
for Social Development and of the twenty-fourth
special session of the General Assembly


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling the World Summit for Social Development, held in Copenhagen from 6 to 12 March 1995, and the twenty-fourth special session of the General Assembly, entitled "World Summit for Social Development and beyond: achieving social development for all in a globalizing world", held in Geneva from 26 June to
1 July 2000,
	Reaffirming that the Copenhagen Declaration on Social Development and the Programme of Action1 and the further initiatives for social development adopted by the General Assembly at its twenty-fourth special session2 constitute the basic framework for the promotion of social development for all at the national and international levels,
	Also recalling and reaffirming the commitments made at major United Nations conferences, special sessions, summit conferences and their follow-up processes, including, in this context, the recognition of the contributions of the outcomes of recent United Nations conferences and summits, such as the International Conference on Financing for Development, held in Monterrey, Mexico, from 18 to 22 March 2002, the special session of the General Assembly on children, held in New York from 8 to 10 May 2002, and the World Summit on Sustainable Development, held in Johannesburg, South Africa, from 26 August to 4 September 2002, and the principles expressed in relevant United Nations declarations,
	Recalling the United Nations Millennium Declaration3 and the development goals contained therein,
	Welcoming the outcome of the Second World Assembly on Ageing, held in Madrid from 8 to 12 April 2002, and stressing the importance of the implementation of the Madrid International Plan of Action on Ageing, 2002,4 which focuses on three priority directions: older persons and development, advancing health and well-being into old age, and ensuring enabling and supportive environments,
	Recalling its previous resolutions on the implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for Social Development and of the twenty-fourth special session of the General Assembly,
	Bearing in mind the need for an integrated and coordinated follow-up to major United Nations conferences, special sessions and summits in the economic, social and related fields,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;5
	2.	Reaffirms the commitments made by heads of State and Government at the World Summit for Social Development, contained in the Copenhagen Declaration on Social Development and the Programme of Action,1 which established a new consensus to place people at the centre of the concerns for sustainable development and pledged to eradicate poverty, promote full and productive employment and foster social integration so as to achieve stable, safe and just societies for all;
	3.	Also reaffirms the decisions on further action and initiatives to accelerate social development for all, adopted by the General Assembly at its twenty-fourth special session and contained in the further initiatives for social development;2
	4.	Recognizes that many of the goals and commitments contained in the outcomes of the World Summit for Social Development and the twenty-fourth special session of the General Assembly have been successfully incorporated in the outcomes of subsequent international conferences and summits, including those of the Millennium Assembly,3 the International Conference on Financing for Development,6 the Second World Assembly on Ageing4 and the World Summit on Sustainable Development,7 and that the integration of social development objectives in these many spheres demonstrates a continuing firm commitment to achieving the goals of the World Summit for Social Development;
	5.	Calls for the speedy implementation of the goals and commitments contained in the outcomes of the World Summit for Social Development and the twenty-fourth special session of the General Assembly;
	6.	Recognizes that, while action taken to implement the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences, special sessions and summits in the economic, social and related fields held during the past ten years will further promote social development, strengthened and effective international and regional cooperation and assistance for development and progress towards increased participation, greater social justice and improved equity in societies will also be required;
	7.	Reaffirms the need for effective partnership and cooperation between Governments and the relevant actors of civil society, including non-governmental organizations and the private sector, in the implementation of and follow-up to the Copenhagen Declaration and the Programme of Action and the further initiatives for social development, and the need to ensure their involvement in the planning, elaboration, implementation and evaluation of social policies at the national level;
	8.	Invites the Secretary-General, the Economic and Social Council, the Commission for Social Development, the regional commissions, the relevant specialized agencies, funds and the programmes of the United Nations system and other relevant intergovernmental forums, within their respective mandates, to continue to integrate into their work programmes and give priority attention to the commitments and undertakings contained in the Copenhagen Declaration and the Programme of Action and in the further initiatives for social development, to continue to be actively involved in their follow-up and to monitor the achievement of those commitments and undertakings;
	9.	Welcomes the contribution of the Commission for Social Development in the follow-up to and the review of the further implementation of the commitments made in Copenhagen and the further initiatives agreed upon in Geneva, reaffirms that the Commission will continue to have the primary responsibility in this regard, and encourages Governments, the relevant specialized agencies, funds and programmes of the United Nations system and civil society to continue to support its work;
	10.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session the item entitled "Implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for Social Development and of the twenty-fourth special session of the General Assembly", and requests the Secretary-General to submit a report on this question to the General Assembly at that session, taking into account, among other things, the need for an integrated and coordinated follow-up to all major United Nations conferences, special sessions and summits.

77th plenary meeting
18 December 2002
1 Report of the World Summit for Social Development, Copenhagen, 6-12 March 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.8), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.
2 Resolution S-24/2, annex.
3 See resolution 55/2.
4 Report of the Second World Assembly on Ageing, Madrid, 8-12 April 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.IV.4), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
5 A/57/115.
6 Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico, 18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
7 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa,
26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolutions 1 and 2.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0254897E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/57/163<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

1
    

1

United NationsA/RES/57/163General AssemblyDistr.: General
16 January 2003Fifty-seventh session
Agenda item 97

02 54897

A/RES/57/163

A/RES/57/163

2

3

