[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 4 December 2006
[without reference to a Main Committee (A/61/L.20/Rev.1 and Add.1)]
61/48.	Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Pacific Islands Forum


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 49/1 of 17 October 1994 and 59/20 of 8 November 2004,
	Welcoming the ongoing efforts towards closer cooperation between the United Nations and the Pacific Islands Forum and its associated institutions,
	Bearing in mind that the Pacific Islands Forum, established in 1971, promotes regional cooperation and integration among its members through trade, investment, economic development and political and international affairs, to achieve their shared goals of economic growth, sustainable development, good governance and security,
	Recalling the importance of the internationally agreed development goals set out in the United Nations Millennium Declaration,1 the Monterrey Consensus of the International Conference on Financing for Development,2 the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation")3 and the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States ("Mauritius Strategy for Implementation"),4
	Taking note of the special circumstances pertaining to the continued presence of radioactive contaminants in certain Pacific Islands Forum nations,5
	Recalling that one of the purposes of the United Nations is to achieve international cooperation in addressing international problems of an economic, social, cultural or humanitarian character,
	Reaffirming the commitment of leaders at the 2005 World Summit, and bearing in mind the call thereat for a stronger relationship between the United Nations and regional and subregional organizations,
	Affirming the need to strengthen the cooperation that already exists between entities of the United Nations system and the Pacific Islands Forum in the areas of peace and security, sustainable development, environmental protection and good governance,
	Noting that many Pacific Islands Forum nations depend upon the continued existence of sustainable marine ecosystems,
	Welcoming the support and assistance given by the United Nations towards the maintenance of peace and security in the Pacific Islands Forum region,
	Taking note of the Communiqué of the Thirty-seventh Pacific Islands Forum, held at Nadi, Fiji, on 24 and 25 October 2006,5
	Mindful of the need for coordinated and effective utilization of available resources in pursuing the common objectives of the two organizations,
	Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on cooperation between the United Nations and regional and other organizations,6
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General,6 in particular part one, section XII, on cooperation between the United Nations and the Pacific Islands Forum, and encourages further such cooperation;
	2.	Notes with satisfaction that regular consultations continue at all levels between the United Nations and the Secretariat of the Pacific Islands Forum, including participation at the annual consultations between the Secretary-General and heads of regional organizations;
	3.	Invites the Secretary-General of the United Nations to take the necessary measures, in consultation with the Secretary-General of the Pacific Islands Forum, to promote and expand cooperation and coordination between the two secretariats in order to increase the capacity of the organizations to attain their common objectives;
	4.	Welcomes the ongoing work of various international organizations and United Nations agencies, funds and programmes in advancing knowledge in the key strategic areas related to governance, security, economic growth, trade and sustainable development, as well as in the implementation of the internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration,1 in the Pacific island countries;
	5.	Recognizes the challenges that Pacific island countries are facing in combating the HIV/AIDS pandemic, and in this regard urges the international community, including the United Nations system, to support Pacific island countries in their efforts to implement the Political Declaration on HIV/AIDS, adopted by the General Assembly at its sixtieth session on 2 June 2006,7 including the commitment to set, in 2006, ambitious national targets that reflected the urgent need to scale up significantly towards the goal of universal access to comprehensive prevention programmes, treatment, care and support by 2010;
	6.	Urges Governments and all relevant international and regional organizations, the Economic and Social Council, United Nations funds, programmes and regional economic commissions, specialized agencies, international financial institutions and the Global Environment Facility, as well as other intergovernmental organizations and major groups, to take timely actions to support Pacific island countries in their efforts to ensure the effective implementation of and follow-up to the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development,8 the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation3 and the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation;4
	7.	Notes the importance of the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy adopted on 8 September 2006,9 and in this regard calls for the support of the United Nations system and other international partners in assisting Pacific island countries in their efforts to implement it;
	8.	Welcomes the ongoing efforts of the Pacific Islands Forum to promote, primarily through the Regional Security Committee, law enforcement cooperation, the rule of law and regional peace and security, including combating all types of terrorism, in implementing the core United Nations treaties on anti-terrorism, anti-money-laundering, transnational crime and the financing of terrorism;
	9.	Requests, in this regard, that the United Nations continue to assist the Pacific Islands Forum in facilitating among its members the timely implementation of relevant United Nations mandates, and invites States to contribute to the Biketawa Trust Fund, which is administered by the Pacific Islands Forum for confidence-building measures and conflict prevention;
	10.	Welcomes the significant efforts of the Pacific Islands Forum in enhancing peace and security in the region, including through the Regional Assistance Mission to Solomon Islands;
	11.	Notes with appreciation the role of the United Nations in the Bougainville peace process in Papua New Guinea and the steady progress being made by the parties;
	12.	Welcomes the establishment of the Peacebuilding Commission and the Peacebuilding Fund, and calls upon the Secretary-General and other relevant actors to give consideration to using these and other mechanisms to support post-conflict peacebuilding activities, reconstruction and institution-building efforts in Pacific island countries, particularly on the island of Bougainville and in Solomon Islands;
	13.	Requests that the Department of Political Affairs of the Secretariat and the United Nations Development Programme, in cooperation with the Pacific Islands Forum, promote joint cooperative needs assessment missions in the region to determine additional support to enhance peacebuilding and reconciliation processes and to complement the activities of regional missions and mechanisms;
	14.	Calls upon the international community to provide, where appropriate, technical and financial support to Pacific island countries in combating the illicit traffic in small arms and light weapons through, inter alia, the implementation of the Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects;10
	15.	Notes the importance of the United Nations field presence in Pacific island countries for enhancing the cooperation with the United Nations system and its development agencies needed to implement the internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals and the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation;
	16.	Welcomes, in this regard, the endorsement by the Secretary-General of the establishment of an expanded and joint in-country presence of the United Nations in Kiribati, the Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), Nauru, Palau, Solomon Islands, Tuvalu and Vanuatu;
	17.	Expresses, in this regard, its appreciation for the support and cooperation of the Pacific Islands Forum members in fulfilling host-country obligations and other operational modalities;
	18.	Notes the efforts of the United Nations, in cooperation with the Pacific Islands Forum, in respect of considering ways to assist Nauru, and in this regard calls upon the United Nations system to support implementation of the Republic of Nauru preparatory assistance project of the United Nations Development Programme as well as that country's national sustainable development strategy;
	19.	Also notes the participation of Pacific leaders at the special session of the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific held in Jakarta on 10 April 2006, and takes note of the project "Enhancing Pacific connectivity";11
	20.	Welcomes the adoption of the Pacific Plan by Pacific Islands Forum leaders at the Thirty-sixth Pacific Islands Forum, in Madang, Papua New Guinea, during the leaders' Forum Retreat on 26 October 2005, which is aimed at enhancing regional integration and cooperation among its members and cooperation with the international community, including the United Nations system;
	21.	Also welcomes the leadership role of the Pacific Islands Forum in furthering the implementation of the 1995 Agreement for the Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 relating to the Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks,12 particularly in the convening of the negotiations for, and the adoption of, the Convention on the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean;
	22.	Further welcomes the decision to convene the Pacific regional seminar on decolonization in Nadi, Fiji, from 28 to 30 November 2006;
	23.	Urges the United Nations to support Pacific island countries in pursuing initiatives for enhancing South-South cooperation among themselves and also with other developing countries;
	24.	Takes note of the steps taken by the Pacific Islands Forum to solidify its partnership with non-State actors in the region in promoting governance and sustainable development issues;
	25.	Recognizes the burden placed on small States by growing international reporting requirements, and encourages the investigation of innovative reporting modalities, including regional reporting, where appropriate;
	26.	Calls upon the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to provide technical support to Pacific Islands Forum members to contribute to the regional efforts in promoting awareness and knowledge of all international human rights treaties and instruments;
	27.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its sixty-third session a report on the implementation of the present resolution;
	28.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-third session the sub-item entitled "Cooperation between the United Nations and the Pacific Islands Forum".

65th plenary meeting
4 December 2006
1 See resolution 55/2.
2 Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico, 18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
3 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 
26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 2, annex.
4 Report of the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Port Louis, Mauritius, 10-14 January 2005 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.05.II.A.4 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
5 See A/61/558, annex.
6 A/61/256 and Add.1.
7 Resolution 60/262, annex.
8 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 
26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
9 Resolution 60/288.
10 See Report of the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, New York, 9-20 July 2001 (A/CONF.192/15), chap. IV, para. 24.
11 See A/61/256, para. 89.
12 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2167, No. 37924.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0649731E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/61/48<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

1
    

1

United NationsA/RES/61/48General AssemblyDistr.: General
12 February 2007Sixty-first session
Agenda item 108 (r)

06-49731

A/RES/61/48

A/RES/61/48

2

5

