[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 19 December 2014
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/69/468 and Corr.1)]
69/210.	Entrepreneurship for development


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 67/202 of 21 December 2012,
	Reaffirming the commitments to development and poverty eradication emanating from the United Nations Millennium Declaration1 and the commitments made at the 2005 World Summit,2 the 2010 high-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly on the Millennium Development Goals3 and other major United Nations summits, conferences and special sessions,
	Recalling the special event to follow up efforts made towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals, held on 25 September 2013, and its outcome document,4
	Recalling also the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, from 20 to 22 June 2012, entitled "The future we want",5 and recognizing the potential of entrepreneurship to contribute to specific sustainable development objectives,
	Reaffirming the Monterrey Consensus of the International Conference on Financing for Development6 in its holistic approach and the Doha Declaration on Financing for Development: outcome document of the Follow-up International Conference on Financing for Development to Review the Implementation of the Monterrey Consensus,7
	Recalling the Istanbul Declaration and Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2011-2020,8
	Recalling also the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action9 and the agreed conclusions adopted by the Commission on the Status of Women at its fifty-eighth session,10 and stressing that women, particularly in developing countries, are important drivers of entrepreneurship,
	Taking note of the ministerial declaration adopted at the high-level segment of the substantive session of 2012 of the Economic and Social Council, entitled "Promoting productive capacity, employment and decent work to eradicate poverty in the context of inclusive, sustainable and equitable economic growth at all levels for achieving the Millennium Development Goals",11
	Welcoming the contribution of all relevant stakeholders, including the private sector, non-governmental organizations and civil society, to the implementation of the outcomes of the United Nations conferences and summits and their reviews in the economic, social, environmental and related fields, as well as the realization of the internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals,
	Recognizing the important contribution entrepreneurship can make to sustainable development by creating jobs and driving economic growth and innovation, improving social conditions and contributing to addressing environmental challenges, and stressing the importance of giving appropriate consideration to the promotion of entrepreneurship in the context of the discussions on the post-2015 development agenda,
	Recognizing also the importance of developing comprehensive and comparable data to monitor progress in the implementation of entrepreneurship policies,
	1.	Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General;12
	2.	Emphasizes the need for improved regulatory environments and policy initiatives that promote entrepreneurship and foster small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as microenterprises, and stresses the positive role entrepreneurship plays in driving job creation and expanding opportunities for all, including for women and youth;
	3.	Encourages Governments to take a coordinated and inclusive approach to promoting entrepreneurship involving all stakeholders, while noting initiatives of civil society, academia and the private sector as important entrepreneurship drivers, and to develop policies, taking into account national priorities and circumstances, that address the legal, social and regulatory barriers to equal, effective economic participation, and stresses the need for a comprehensive approach to entrepreneurship that includes support from development partners in the areas of technology transfer on favourable terms, including on concessional and preferential terms, as mutually agreed, finance and capacity-building, with a focus on education and skills development;
	4.	Acknowledges the important role trade plays in enhancing the capacity of enterprises, and reaffirms in this regard the critical role that a universal, rules-based, open, non-discriminatory and equitable multilateral trading system can play in stimulating economic growth and development worldwide, thereby benefiting all countries at all stages of development as they advance towards sustainable development;
	5.	Emphasizes that partnerships with the private sector play an important role in promoting entrepreneurship, generating employment and investment, increasing revenue potential, developing new technologies and innovative business models and enabling high, sustained, inclusive and equitable economic growth while protecting workers' rights;
	6.	Invites Member States to strengthen the capacity of national financial institutions to reach out to those who have no access to banking, insurance and other financial services, and encourages them to adopt regulatory and supervisory frameworks that facilitate the safe and sound provision of services to such populations, increase access to information and promote financial literacy, particularly for women;
	7.	Encourages Member States to expand alternative sources of financing and diversify the retail financial service system to include non-traditional providers of financial services, such as microcredit and microfinance, stresses the value of a sound regulatory framework in this regard, and also encourages the provision of incentives to microfinance institutions that meet national standards for delivering sound financial services to the poor, with a particular emphasis on women;
	8.	Emphasizes the important role of national efforts aimed at bringing informal workers into the formal economy and integrating them into national social security systems;
	9.	Recognizes that technological improvement, particularly through the diffusion of technology, can provide new opportunities for businesses to improve their competitiveness, and in this regard encourages Member States to increase cooperation in support of technology exchange and transfer, innovation and capacity-building programmes for promoting entrepreneurship;
	10.	Also recognizes the value of teaching entrepreneurial skills at all levels of education, ensuring the full and equal participation of women and girls, and encourages entrepreneurship education through skills development, capacity-building, training programmes and business incubators;
	11.	Acknowledges the role of entrepreneurship in enabling youth to turn their creativity, energy and ideas into business opportunities by helping to facilitate their entry into the labour market;
	12.	Encourages the United Nations system, in cooperation with Member States, to identify indicators that can be used to evaluate the success of entrepreneurship policies;
	13.	Recognizes that democratic political institutions, transparent and accountable public and private entities, effective anti-corruption measures and responsible corporate governance are key conditions for making market economies and enterprises more responsive to the values and long-term goals of society;
	14.	Acknowledges that the private sector can contribute to the achievement of sustainable development and support national regulatory and policy frameworks that enable business and industry to advance sustainable development initiatives, taking into account the importance of responsible business practices and corporate social responsibility;
	15.	Encourages the international community to support the efforts of countries in promoting entrepreneurship and fostering the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as microenterprises, taking into account the challenges and opportunities of increased trade liberalization;
	16.	Encourages countries to consider establishing or strengthening national centres of excellence in entrepreneurship and similar bodies, and also encourages cooperation and networking and the sharing of best practices between them;
	17.	Calls upon the relevant organizations and bodies of the United Nations system to further recognize and integrate entrepreneurship in its various forms into their policies, programmes and reports and to support national efforts in this regard, as appropriate;
	18.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its seventy-first session a report on the progress made in implementing the present resolution, highlighting indicators based on existing work, as well as identifying best practices and possible measures that could be taken at all levels in support of entrepreneurship.

75th plenary meeting
19 December 2014

1 Resolution 55/2.
2 Resolution 60/1.
3 Resolution 65/1.
4 Resolution 68/6.
5 Resolution 66/288, annex.
6 Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico, 18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
7 Resolution 63/239, annex.
8 Report of the Fourth United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries, Istanbul, Turkey, 9-13 May 2011 (A/CONF.219/7), chap. I and II.
9 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.
10 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2014, Supplement No. 7 (E/2014/27), chap. I, sect. A.
11 E/HLS/2012/1.
12 A/69/320.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1471193E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/69/210<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/69/210General AssemblyDistr.: General
28 January 2015Sixty-ninth session
Agenda item 19

14-67772 (E)
*1467772*Please recycle 

A/RES/69/210Entrepreneurship for development

Entrepreneurship for developmentA/RES/69/210

4/4

3/4

