[Start1]

Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 22 December 2015
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/70/472)]
70/196.	Sustainable tourism and sustainable development in Central America


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling all relevant resolutions of the General Assembly on this matter, in particular its resolutions 66/196 of 22 December 2011 and 68/207 of 20 December 2013,
	Recalling also the Manila Declaration on World Tourism,1 the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development2 and Agenda 21,3 the Amman Declaration on Peace through Tourism,4 the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development5 and the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development (Johannesburg Plan of Implementation),6 the Declaration of Barbados7 and the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,8 the Mauritius Declaration9 and the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,10 the Istanbul Declaration,11 the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2011-202012 and the outcome document of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, entitled "The future we want",13
	Reaffirming its resolution 70/1 of 25 September 2015, entitled "Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development", in which it adopted a comprehensive, far-reaching and people-centred set of universal and transformative Sustainable Development Goals and targets, its commitment to working tirelessly for the full implementation of this Agenda by 2030, its recognition that eradicating poverty in all its forms and dimensions, including extreme poverty, is the greatest global challenge and an indispensable requirement for sustainable development, its commitment to achieving sustainable development in its three dimensions - economic, social and environmental - in a balanced and integrated manner, and to building upon the achievements of the Millennium Development Goals and seeking to address their unfinished business,
	Reaffirming also its resolution 69/313 of 27 July 2015 on the Addis Ababa Action Agenda of the Third International Conference on Financing for Development, which is an integral part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, supports and complements it, helps to contextualize its means of implementation targets with concrete policies and actions, and reaffirms the strong political commitment to address the challenge of financing and creating an enabling environment at all levels for sustainable development in the spirit of global partnership and solidarity,
	Welcoming the resolution adopted by the General Assembly of the World Tourism Organization at its twenty-first session, held in Medellin, Colombia, from 12 to 17 September 2015, on the International Year of Sustainable Tourism for Development, 2017,
	Recognizing the important role of sustainable tourism as a positive instrument towards the eradication of poverty, the protection of the environment and the improvement of quality of life and the empowerment of women in all aspects, and its contribution to the three dimensions of sustainable development, especially in developing countries,
	Stressing the need for responsible tourism and for its beneficial socioeconomic impact on local communities, the economic empowerment of women through tourism, fair tourism, the protection of children against all forms of exploitation in tourism, the prevention of trafficking in human beings and in cultural artefacts, respect for intangible cultural heritage, the protection of tourists as consumers and the provision of unbiased information to tourists,
	Emphasizing that all sustainable tourism in Central America is a cross-cutting issue with close linkages to other sectors, that it generates trade opportunities and is a fundamental pillar of regional integration and an engine of social and economic development, income, investment and hard currency, and that it can therefore contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals,
	
	Noting in this regard the role of the Central American Integration System, which includes Belize, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama, in the promotion of sustainable tourism in the region,
	Stressing that poverty eradication through tourism, with a focus on ecotourism, community-based tourism and micro- and small businesses in the tourism supply chain, is a key objective in the strategic planning of the Central American countries,
	Noting the outcomes of the Forum on Tourism, Sustainability and Climate Change in Central America, held from 11 to 13 April 2013 in La Ceiba, Honduras, the outcomes adopted at the 96th meeting of the Central American Tourism Council,  held in San Salvador on 14 July 2015, and the declaration of the 15th forum on the development of tourism and on the harmonization of efforts to promote tourism in Central America and the Dominican Republic, held in Guatemala City on 27 August 2014,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;14
	2.	Notes the ongoing efforts of the Governments of the Central American countries, in coordination with the Central American Commission for Environment and Development, in the implementation of existing and new programmes designed to launch and promote sustainable tourism throughout the region;
	3.	Welcomes the adoption of the principles of sustainable tourism by the Central American Tourism Integration Secretariat, conceptualized by the Global Sustainable Tourism Council of the World Tourism Organization through its Global Sustainable Tourism Criteria, to serve as the framework for tourism development, which are expressed in the strategic plan for sustainable development, 2014-2018, developed by the Central American Tourism Integration Secretariat, capturing the region's vision of itself as an integrated, sustainable, multi-location destination of high quality and emphasizing its action plan for tourism and climate change as a component of the regional strategy on climate change;
	4.	Notes the valuable role of international cooperation with relevant partners in the implementation of various projects aimed at promoting sustainable tourism in the region, including by strengthening ecotourism, rural tourism and colonial cities tourism;
	5.	Also notes the existing joint initiatives designed and implemented to stimulate regional tourism integration, such as the Mayan World regional brand;
	6.	Welcomes the progress made by the Central American countries in converging on a regional tourism strategy based on conserving the region's biodiversity and natural and cultural attractions, reducing poverty through employment and entrepreneurial tourism development that emphasizes the micro- and medium-sized enterprises that dominate the industry, addressing climate change and using tourism as a tool to improve the quality of life of the region's inhabitants;
	7.	Also welcomes the actions taken with the aim of establishing the Global Observatory of Sustainable Tourism network in the Americas, which may well serve 
as a model for the rest of the region and the Americas in using data on sustainable tourism for improving policies and offering capacity-building to enhance the sustainability of destinations;
	8.	Recognizes the need to support sustainable tourism activities and relevant capacity-building efforts that promote environmental awareness, conserve and protect the environment, respect wildlife, flora, biodiversity, ecosystems and cultural diversity and improve the welfare and livelihoods of local communities by supporting their local economies and the human and natural environment as a whole;
	9.	Also recognizes the opportunities for promoting sustainable tourism activities through the programme on sustainable tourism and its component on ecotourism under the 10-year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and production patterns adopted by the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in 2012 and the launch of the sustainable tourism programme of the framework, and encourages further implementation through capacity-building projects and initiatives to support sustainable tourism;
	10.	Stresses the need to promote the further development of sustainable tourism, in particular through the consumption of sustainable tourism products and services, and to strengthen the development of ecotourism, maintaining, in particular, the culture and environmental integrity of indigenous and local communities and enhancing the protection of ecologically sensitive areas and the natural heritage;
	11.	Welcomes the efforts of the World Tourism Organization, the United Nations Environment Programme, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity to promote sustainable tourism worldwide;
	12.	Invites States Members of the United Nations and other stakeholders and the World Tourism Organization to continue to support the activities undertaken by the Central American countries for the promotion of responsible and sustainable tourism in the region, in the context of emergency preparedness and mitigation of and response to natural disasters, as well as for capacity-building, in order to create jobs and promote local culture and products, including by empowering women and youth and extending the benefits of tourism to all sectors of society, including the most vulnerable and marginalized groups of the population, while minimizing its negative impact, and to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals;
	13.	Encourages the Central American countries, through the Central American Tourism Council and the Central American Tourism Integration Secretariat, to continue to support sustainable tourism through policies that foster responsive and inclusive tourism, strengthen regional identity and protect the natural and cultural heritage, especially their ecosystems and biodiversity, and notes that existing initiatives, such as the Global Partnership for Sustainable Tourism, among other international initiatives, can deliver direct and focused support to Governments to this end;
	14.	Also encourages the Central American countries to share their experiences on sustainable tourism aimed at contributing to poverty alleviation for the benefit of all countries;
	
	15.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its seventy-second session a report on the implementation of the present resolution, and decides to include in the provisional agenda of its seventy-second session the item entitled "Sustainable development", unless otherwise agreed in the discussions on the revitalization of the Second Committee.

81st plenary meeting
22 December 2015

1 A/36/236, annex, appendix I.
2 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992, vol. I, Resolutions Adopted by the Conference (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum), resolution 1, annex I.
3 Ibid., annex II.
4 A/55/640, annex.
5 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa,
26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
6 Ibid., resolution 2, annex.
7 Report of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Bridgetown, Barbados, 25 April-6 May 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.94.I.18 and corrigenda), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
8 Ibid., annex II.
9 Report of the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Port Louis, Mauritius, 10-14 January 2005 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.05.II.A.4 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
10 Ibid., annex II.
11 Report of the Fourth United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries, Istanbul, Turkey
 9-13 May 2011 (A/CONF.219/7), chap. I.
12 Ibid., chap. II.
13 Resolution 66/288, annex.
14 A/70/215 and Add.1.
[Start1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1544989E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/70/196<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

5
    

5

United NationsA/RES/70/196General AssemblyDistr.: General
 16 February 2016Seventieth session
Agenda item 20 

15-16950 (E)
*1516950*Please recycle 

A/RES/70/196Sustainable tourism and sustainable development in Central America

Sustainable tourism and sustainable development in Central AmericaA/RES/70/196

2/2

5/5

