[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 19 December 2007
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/62/422/Add.1)]
62/203.	Third United Nations Conference on the Least
Developed Countries


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling the Brussels Declaration1 and the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2001-2010,2
	Recalling also the United Nations Millennium Declaration,3 in particular paragraph 15 thereof, in which the Heads of State and Government undertook to address the special needs of the least developed countries,
	Recalling further its resolution 57/270 B of 23 June 2003 on the integrated and coordinated implementation of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and summits in the economic and social fields,
	Recalling the 2005 World Summit Outcome,4
	Recalling also its resolutions 61/211 of 20 December 2006 and 61/1 of 19 September 2006,
	Reaffirming its resolution 60/265 of 30 June 2006 on the follow-up to the development outcome of the 2005 World Summit, including the Millennium Development Goals and the other internationally agreed development goals,
	Taking note of the Ministerial Declaration of the high-level segment of the substantive session of 2004 of the Economic and Social Council on the theme "Resources mobilization and enabling environment for poverty eradication in the context of the implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2001-2010",5
	Taking note also of the Istanbul Declaration on the Least Developed Countries: Time for Action,6 adopted at the Ministerial Conference of the Least Developed Countries held in Istanbul on 9 and 10 July 2007 on the theme "Making globalization work for the least developed countries",
	Reaffirming that the Programme of Action constitutes a fundamental framework for a strong global partnership, whose goal is to accelerate sustained economic growth, sustainable development and poverty eradication in the least developed countries,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2001-2010;7
	2.	Also takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the advocacy strategy on the effective and timely implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2001-2010;8
	3.	Welcomes the contributions made in the lead-up to the midterm comprehensive global review of the implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2001-2010,2 including the elaboration of the Cotonou Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2001-20109 as an initiative owned and led by the least developed countries;
	4.	Reaffirms its commitment to the Declaration10 adopted by Heads of State and Government and heads of delegations participating in the high-level meeting of the General Assembly on the midterm comprehensive global review of the implementation of the Programme of Action, in which they recommitted themselves to addressing the special needs of the least developed countries by making progress towards the goals of poverty eradication, peace and development;
	5.	Remains concerned about the insufficient and uneven progress achieved in the implementation of the Programme of Action, and stresses the need to address, within the time frame set by the Programme of Action, areas of weakness in its implementation and the continued precarious socio-economic situation in some least developed countries through a strong commitment to the objectives, goals and targets of the Programme of Action;
	6.	Welcomes the continued economic progress of many least developed countries, which has led to the fact that a number of countries are proceeding towards graduation from the list of least developed countries;
	7.	Stresses that the internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals, can be effectively achieved in the least developed countries through, in particular, the timely fulfilment of the seven commitments of the Programme of Action;
	8.	Reaffirms that progress in the implementation of the Programme of Action will require effective implementation of national policies and priorities for the sustained economic growth and sustainable development of the least developed countries, as well as strong and committed partnership between those countries and their development partners;
	9.	Underlines the fact that, for the further implementation of the Programme of Action, the least developed countries and their development partners must be guided by an integrated approach, a broader genuine partnership, country ownership, market considerations and results-oriented actions encompassing:
	(a)	Fostering a people-centred policy framework;
	(b)	Ensuring good governance at both the national and international levels as essential for the implementation of the commitments embodied in the Programme of Action;
	(c)	Building human and institutional capacities;
	(d)	Building productive capacities to make globalization work for the least developed countries;
	(e)	Enhancing the role of trade in development;
	(f)	Reducing vulnerability and protecting the environment;
	(g)	Mobilizing financial resources;
	10.	Urges the least developed countries to strengthen the implementation of the Programme of Action through their respective national development framework, including, where they exist, Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, the common country assessment and the United Nations Development Assistance Framework;
	11.	Urges development partners to fully implement, in a timely manner, commitments in the Programme of Action and to exercise individual best efforts to continue to increase their financial and technical support for its implementation;
	12.	Also urges development partners to continue to support the efforts of countries graduating from the list of least developed countries in order to better promote their further integration into the world economy, to sustain their development process and to avoid any disruption therein, including within the framework of the smooth transition strategy;
	13.	Encourages the United Nations Resident Coordinator system, the Bretton Woods institutions, bilateral and multilateral donors and other development partners to assist the least developed countries in translating goals and targets of the Programme of Action into concrete actions in the light of their national development priorities;
	14.	Invites the organizations of the United Nations system and other multilateral organizations that have not yet done so to mainstream the implementation of the Brussels Declaration1 and the Programme of Action within their programmes of work as well as in their intergovernmental processes and to undertake within their respective mandates multi-year programming of actions in favour of the least developed countries;
	15.	Stresses, within the context of the annual global reviews, as envisaged in the Programme of Action, the need to assess the implementation of the Programme of Action sector by sector, and in this regard invites the United Nations system and all relevant international organizations, consistent with their respective mandates, to report on the progress made in its implementation using quantifiable criteria and indicators to be measured against the goals and targets of the Programme of Action and to participate fully in reviews of the Programme of Action at the national, subregional, regional and global levels;
	16.	Also stresses the crucial importance of integrated and coordinated follow-up, monitoring and reporting for the effective implementation of the Programme of Action at the national, subregional, regional and global levels;
	17.	Requests, in this regard, the Secretary-General to ensure, at the Secretariat level, the full mobilization and coordination of all parts of the United Nations system to facilitate coordinated implementation as well as coherence in the follow-up to and monitoring and review of the Programme of Action at the national, subregional, regional and global levels, including through such coordination mechanisms as the United Nations System Chief Executives Board for Coordination, the United Nations Development Group, the Executive Committee on Economic and Social Affairs and the Inter-agency Expert Group on the Millennium Development Goals Indicators;
	18.	Reiterates its invitation to the organs, organizations and bodies of the United Nations system, and other relevant multilateral organizations, to provide full support to and cooperate with the Office of the High Representative for the Least Developed Countries, Landlocked Developing Countries and Small Island Developing States;
	19.	Reiterates its request to the Secretary-General to include the least developed countries in all relevant reports in the economic, social and related fields in order to ensure the follow-up of their development in the broader context of the world economy and contribute to preventing their further marginalization;
	20.	Expresses its concern about the insufficiency of resources in the trust fund established for the participation of the least developed countries in the annual review of the implementation of the Programme of Action by the Economic and Social Council;
	21.	Reiterates the critical importance of the participation of Government representatives from the least developed countries in the annual review of the Programme of Action by the Economic and Social Council, expresses, in this regard, its deep appreciation to those countries that have made voluntary contributions to the special trust fund established for this purpose by the Secretary-General, invites donor countries to continue to support the participation of two representatives from each least developed country in the annual review of the implementation of the Programme of Action, including by contributing in an adequate and timely manner to the special trust fund, and requests the Secretary-General to intensify his efforts to mobilize the necessary resources in order to ensure that the trust fund is adequately resourced;
	22.	Recalls paragraph 114 of the Programme of Action on holding a fourth United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries towards the end of the current decade, requests the Secretary-General, in this regard, to prepare a note during the sixty-second session of the General Assembly outlining the modalities of such a conference, including its preparatory process, and also, in this regard, invites Member States to consider hosting that conference;
	23.	Requests the Secretary-General to take appropriate measures for the implementation of the advocacy strategy,8 in coordination with all relevant stakeholders;
	24.	Also requests the Secretary-General to submit an annual analytical and results-oriented progress report on the further implementation of the Programme of Action and to make available adequate resources, within existing resources, for the preparation of such a report.

78th plenary meeting
19 December 2007
1 A/CONF.191/13, chap. I.
2 Ibid., chap. II.
3 See resolution 55/2.
4 See resolution 60/1.
5Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 3 (A/59/3/Rev.1), chap. III, para. 49.
6 A/62/216, annex.
7 A/62/79-E/2007/63 and Corr.1.
8 A/62/322.
9 A/61/117, annex I.
10 See resolution 61/1.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0747595E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/62/203<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/62/203General AssemblyDistr.: General
29 February 2008Sixty-second session
Agenda item 57 (a)

07-47595

A/RES/62/203

A/RES/62/203

4

5

