<<ODS JOB NO>>N9876507E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/52/91<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>

UNITED									A
NATIONS



					General Assembly


																		Distr.
																		GENERAL

																		A/RES/52/91
																		4 February 1998






Fifty-second session
Agenda item 103


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/52/635)]


52/91.Preparations for the Tenth United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders


	The General Assembly,

	Recalling its resolution 50/145 of 21 December 1995 on the Ninth United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders,

	Considering that, pursuant to its resolutions 415 (V) of 1 December 1950 and 46/152 of 18 December 1991, the Tenth United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders is to be convened in the year 2000,

	Recognizing the significant contributions of the United Nations congresses on the prevention of crime and the treatment of offenders to the promotion and strengthening of international cooperation in crime prevention and criminal justice,

	Bearing in mind the new role of the congresses, as stipulated in paragraph 29 of the Statement of Principles and Programme of Action of the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme contained in the annex to resolution 46/152,

	Recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 1993/32 of 27 July 1993 and the draft rules of procedure for United Nations congresses on the prevention of crime and the treatment of offenders annexed to that resolution,

	Recalling resolution 5/1 of 30 May 1996 of the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, in which the Commission requested the Secretary-General to summarize the views received from Governments, relevant agencies and programmes of the United Nations system and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations concerning the proposals for the theme, format, agenda items, workshop topics and possible venue of the Tenth Congress for consideration by the Commission at its sixth session,1


	1.	Takes note of the report of the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice on its sixth session2 and of the its discussion on the preparations for the Tenth United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders;3

	2.	Decides that the Tenth Congress should be held in the year 2000 and that the following topics should be included in its provisional agenda, as recommended by the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice at its sixth session:4

	(a)	Promoting the rule of law and strengthening the criminal justice system;

	(b)	International cooperation in combating transnational crime:  new challenges in the twenty-first century;

	(c)	Effective crime prevention:  keeping pace with new developments;

	(d)	Offenders and victims:  accountability and fairness in the justice process;

	3.	Also decides that four workshops on the following issues should be held within the framework of the Tenth Congress:

	(a)	Combating corruption;

	(b)	Crimes related to the computer network;

	(c)	Community involvement in crime prevention;

	(d)	Women in the criminal justice system;

	4.	Welcomes the offer by the Government of South Africa to host the Tenth Congress, and requests the Secretary-General to initiate consultations with the Government and to report to the Commission at its seventh session;

	5.	Takes note with appreciation of the statement made on behalf of the Government of Austria that, if consensus could be reached and questions of timing could be resolved, that Government would be honoured to host the Tenth Congress at Vienna;

	6.	Requests the Commission, at its seventh session, to finalize the programme for the Tenth Congress and to make its final recommendations, through the Economic and Social Council, to the General Assembly, taking into account the fact that the Tenth Congress should deal with a limited number of precisely defined substantive topics reflecting the urgent needs of the world community and should include practical technical workshops on well-focused issues related to the substantive agenda items;



	7.	Requests the Secretary-General to prepare a discussion guide for the consideration of the Commission, in cooperation with the institutes for the prevention of crime and the treatment of offenders affiliated with the United Nations, and invites Member States to be actively involved in that process;

	8.	Invites the regional commissions, the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme network, government-appointed national correspondents in the field of crime prevention and criminal justice, the specialized agencies and other entities within the United Nations system, the intergovernmental organizations concerned and relevant non-governmental organizations in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council to become actively involved in the preparations for the Tenth Congress;

	9.	Invites Member States to be represented at the Tenth Congress at a high political level, for example by heads of State, government ministers and attorneys-general;

	10.	Decides to reserve the first two days of the plenary session at the Tenth Congress following its opening primarily for statements by such representatives at a high political level on the main themes of the Congress;

	11.	Requests the Secretary-General to prepare an overview of the state of crime and criminal justice worldwide for presentation at the opening of the Tenth Congress;

	12.	Also requests the Secretary-General to facilitate the organization of ancillary meetings of non-governmental and professional organizations participating in the Tenth Congress, in accordance with past practice, as well as meetings of professional and geographical interest groups, and to take appropriate measures to encourage the participation of the academic and research community at the Tenth Congress;

	13.	Further requests the Secretary-General to provide the Centre for International Crime Prevention of the Secretariat, serving as the secretariat of the Tenth Congress, with the resources necessary to undertake, in an effective and timely manner, within the overall appropriations of the programme budget for the biennium 1998-1999, the preparatory activities for the Tenth Congress, as directed by the Commission, including the organization of regional preparatory meetings, and to ensure adequate resources for the biennium 2000-2001 for other requirements and the conduct of the Tenth Congress itself;

	14.	Requests the Secretary-General to provide resources, as required, in accordance with established United Nations budgetary practice and within the overall appropriations of the programme budget for the biennium 1998-1999, and adequate resources for the biennium 2000-2001, in order to ensure an appropriate programme of public information relating to the preparations for the Tenth Congress;

	15.	Also requests the Secretary-General to make available the necessary resources for the participation of the least developed countries in the regional preparatory meetings for the Tenth Congress and in the Congress itself, in accordance with past practice;

	16.	Invites the Commission, as the preparatory body for the United Nations congresses, to finalize all organizational arrangements for the Tenth Congress at its seventh session, including its dates, duration, documentation and venue;

	17.	Requests the Secretary-General to ensure proper follow-up action to the present resolution and to report thereon to the General Assembly, through the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice  at its seventh session.

	70th plenary meeting
	12 December 1997
1 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1996, Supplement No. 10 and corrigenda (E/1996/30 and Corr.1-3), chap. I, sect. D.
2 Ibid., 1997, Supplement No. 10 and corrigendum (E/1997/30 and Corr.1).
3 Ibid., chap. II.
4 Ibid., para. 15.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------



 

 


98-76507	/...


98-76507	/...

A/RES/52/91
Page 1



	A/RES/52/91
	Page 1




98-76507	/...


98-76507	/...

A/RES/52/91
Page 2



	A/RES/52/91
	Page 2




	/...


	/...

A/RES/52/91
Page 3



	A/RES/52/91
	Page 3







