[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 10 December 2014
[on the report of the Sixth Committee (A/69/498)]
69/118.	Report of the International Law Commission on the work of its sixty-sixth session


	The General Assembly,
	Having considered the report of the International Law Commission on the work of its sixty-sixth session,1
	Emphasizing the importance of furthering the progressive development and codification of international law as a means of implementing the purposes and principles set forth in the Charter of the United Nations and in the Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Cooperation among States in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations,2
	Recognizing the desirability of referring legal and drafting questions to the Sixth Committee, including topics that might be submitted to the International Law Commission for closer examination, and of enabling the Sixth Committee and the Commission to enhance further their contribution to the progressive development and codification of international law,
	Recalling the need to keep under review those topics of international law which, given their new or renewed interest for the international community, may be suitable for the progressive development and codification of international law and therefore may be included in the future programme of work of the International Law Commission,
	Recalling also the role of Member States in submitting proposals for new topics for the consideration of the International Law Commission, and noting in this regard the recommendation of the Commission that such proposals be accompanied by a statement of reasons,
	Reaffirming the importance for the successful work of the International Law Commission of the information provided by Member States concerning their views and practice,
	Recognizing the importance of the work of the special rapporteurs of the International Law Commission,
	Welcoming the holding of the International Law Seminar, which commemorated its fiftieth anniversary in 2014, and noting with appreciation the voluntary contributions made to the United Nations Trust Fund for the International Law Seminar,
	Acknowledging the importance of facilitating the timely publication of the Yearbook of the International Law Commission and of eliminating the backlog,
	Stressing the usefulness of focusing and structuring the debate on the report of the International Law Commission in the Sixth Committee in such a manner that conditions are provided for concentrated attention to each of the main topics dealt with in the report and for discussions on specific topics,
	Wishing to enhance further, in the context of the revitalization of the debate on the report of the International Law Commission, the interaction between the Sixth Committee as a body of governmental representatives and the Commission as a body of independent legal experts, with a view to improving the dialogue between the two bodies,
	Welcoming initiatives to hold interactive debates, panel discussions and question time in the Sixth Committee, as envisaged in General Assembly resolution 58/316 of 1 July 2004 on further measures for the revitalization of the work of the Assembly,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the International Law Commission on the work of its sixty-sixth session;1
	2.	Expresses its appreciation to the International Law Commission for the work accomplished at its sixty-sixth session, and notes in particular:
	(a)	The completion of the second reading of the draft articles on the expulsion of aliens;3
	(b)	The completion of the first reading of the draft articles on the protection of persons in the event of disasters;4
	(c)	The completion of the work on the topic "The obligation to extradite or prosecute (aut dedere aut judicare)" by the adoption of the final report on the topic;5
	3.	Takes note of the final report on the topic "The obligation to extradite or prosecute (aut dedere aut judicare)" contained in paragraph 65 of the report of the International Law Commission, and encourages its widest possible dissemination;
	4.	Recommends that the International Law Commission continue its work on the topics in its current programme, taking into account the comments and observations of Governments, whether submitted in writing or expressed orally in debates in the Sixth Committee;
	5.	Draws the attention of Governments to the importance for the International Law Commission of having their views by 31 January 2015 on the various aspects of the topics on the agenda of the Commission, in particular on all the specific issues identified in chapter III of its report, regarding:
	(a)	Subsequent agreements and subsequent practice in relation to the interpretation of treaties;
	(b)	Protection of the atmosphere;
	(c)	Immunity of State officials from foreign criminal jurisdiction;
	(d)	Identification of customary international law;
	(e)	Protection of the environment in relation to armed conflicts;
	(f)	Provisional application of treaties;
	(g)	Crimes against humanity;
	6.	Also draws the attention of Governments to the importance for the International Law Commission of having their comments and observations by 1 January 2016 on the draft articles on the topic "Protection of persons in the event of disasters", adopted on first reading by the Commission at its sixty-sixth session;6
	7.	Takes note of the decision of the International Law Commission to include the topic "Crimes against humanity" in its programme of work,7 and encourages the Commission to continue the examination of the topics that are in its long-term programme of work;
	8.	Also takes note of paragraphs 267 to 272 of the report of the International Law Commission, and notes in particular the inclusion of the topic "Jus cogens" in the long-term programme of work of the Commission8 and the request of the Commission that the Secretariat review the list of possible future topics established in 19969 and prepare for its consideration a list of potential topics accompanied by brief explanatory notes, by the end of the present quinquennium;
	9.	Further takes note of paragraph 281 of the report of the International Law Commission, and requests the Secretary-General to continue his efforts to identify concrete options for support for the work of special rapporteurs, additional to those provided under General Assembly resolution 56/272 of 27 March 2002;
	10.	Welcomes the efforts of the International Law Commission to improve its methods of work,10 and encourages the Commission to continue this practice;
	11.	Recalls that the seat of the International Law Commission is at the United Nations Office at Geneva;
	12.	Notes that the International Law Commission is considering the possibility of holding part of its future sessions in New York, underlines, to that purpose, the importance of the Commission taking into account estimated costs and relevant administrative, organizational and other factors, and calls upon the Commission to deliberate thoroughly the feasibility of holding part of its sixty-eighth session in New York;
	13.	Decides, without prejudice to the output of those deliberations, to revert to the consideration of the recommendation contained in paragraph 388 of the report of the International Law Commission on the work of its sixty-third session11 during the seventieth session of the General Assembly;
	14.	Invites the International Law Commission to continue to take measures to enhance its efficiency and productivity and to consider making proposals to Member States to that end;
	15.	Encourages the International Law Commission to continue to take cost-saving measures at its future sessions, without prejudice to the efficiency and effectiveness of its work;
	16.	Takes note of paragraph 291 of the report of the International Law Commission, and decides that the next session of the Commission shall be held at the United Nations Office at Geneva from 4 May to 5 June and from 6 July to 7 August 2015;
	17.	Stresses the desirability of further enhancing the dialogue between the International Law Commission and the Sixth Committee at the seventieth session of the General Assembly, and in this context encourages, inter alia, the continued practice of informal consultations in the form of discussions between the members of the Sixth Committee and the members of the Commission attending the seventieth session of the Assembly;
	18.	Encourages delegations, during the debate on the report of the International Law Commission, to continue to adhere as far as possible to the structured work programme agreed to by the Sixth Committee and to consider presenting concise and focused statements;
	19.	Encourages Member States to consider being represented at the level of legal adviser during the first week in which the report of the International Law Commission is discussed in the Sixth Committee (International Law Week) to enable high-level discussions on issues of international law;
	20.	Requests the International Law Commission to continue to pay special attention to indicating in its annual report, for each topic, any specific issues on which expressions of views by Governments, either in the Sixth Committee or in written form, would be of particular interest in providing effective guidance for the Commission in its further work;
	21.	Takes note of paragraphs 293 to 297 of the report of the International Law Commission with regard to cooperation and interaction with other bodies, and encourages the Commission to continue the implementation of articles 16 (e), 25 and 26 of its statute in order to further strengthen cooperation between the Commission and other bodies concerned with international law, having in mind the usefulness of such cooperation;
	22.	Notes that consulting with national organizations and individual experts concerned with international law may assist Governments in considering whether to make comments and observations on drafts submitted by the International Law Commission and in formulating their comments and observations;
	23.	Reaffirms its previous decisions concerning the indispensable role of the Codification Division of the Office of Legal Affairs of the Secretariat in providing assistance to the International Law Commission, including in the preparation of memorandums and studies on topics on the agenda of the Commission;
	24.	Also reaffirms its previous decisions concerning the documentation and summary records of the International Law Commission;12
	25.	Welcomes the institutionalization of the practice of the Secretariat to include the provisional summary records on the website relating to the work of the International Law Commission;
	26.	Takes note of paragraph 282 of the report of the International Law Commission, underlines the importance of the publications of the Codification Division to the work of the Commission, and reiterates its request that the Secretary-General continue to publish the Work of the International Law Commission in all six official languages at the beginning of each quinquennium, the Reports of International Arbitral Awards in English or French and the Summaries of the Judgments, Advisory Opinions and Orders of the International Court of Justice in all six official languages every five years;
	27.	Stresses the need to expedite the preparation of the summary records of the International Law Commission, and welcomes the continuation of the experimental measures taken to streamline the processing of summary records during the sixty-fifth session of the Commission,13 which have led to a more rational use of resources, and expresses its satisfaction that the summary records of the Commission, constituting travaux préparatoires in the progressive development and codification of international law, will not be subject to arbitrary length restrictions;
	28.	Takes note of paragraph 286 of the report of the International Law Commission, stresses the unique value of the Yearbook of the International Law Commission, and requests the Secretary-General to ensure its timely publication in all official languages;
	29.	Also takes note of paragraph 286 of the report of the International Law Commission, expresses its appreciation to Governments that have made voluntary contributions to the trust fund on the backlog relating to the Yearbook of the International Law Commission, and encourages further contributions to the trust fund;
	30.	Further takes note of paragraph 288 of the report of the International Law Commission, expresses its satisfaction with the remarkable progress achieved in the past few years in reducing the backlog of the Yearbook of the International Law Commission in all six languages, and welcomes the efforts made by the Division of Conference Management of the United Nations Office at Geneva, especially its Editing Section, in effectively implementing relevant resolutions of the General Assembly calling for the reduction of the backlog;
	31.	Takes note of paragraph 288 of the report of the International Law Commission, encourages the Division of Conference Management to provide continuous necessary support to the Editing Section in advancing the Yearbook of the International Law Commission, and requests that updates on progress made in this respect be provided to the Commission on a regular basis;
	32.	Welcomes the continuous efforts of the Codification Division to maintain and improve the website relating to the work of the International Law Commission, expresses its satisfaction to the Division for the successful completion of the digitization and posting on the website of the entire collection of the documents of the Commission in Spanish, and encourages the Division to continue to pursue its efforts with respect to documents in the remaining official languages;
	33.	Expresses the hope that the International Law Seminar will continue to be held in connection with the sessions of the International Law Commission and that an increasing number of participants representing the principal legal systems of the world, including in particular those from developing countries, will be given the opportunity to attend the Seminar, as well as delegates to the Sixth Committee, and appeals to States to continue to make urgently needed voluntary contributions to the United Nations Trust Fund for the International Law Seminar;
	34.	Takes note with appreciation of paragraph 312 of the report of the International Law Commission and of the organization by the Commission of a meeting in July 2014 to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the International Law Seminar;
	35.	Requests the Secretary-General to provide the International Law Seminar with adequate services, including interpretation, as required, and encourages him to continue to consider ways to improve the structure and content of the Seminar;
	36.	Underlines the importance of the records and topical summary of the debate in the Sixth Committee for the deliberations of the International Law Commission, and in this regard requests the Secretary-General to forward to the Commission, for its attention, the records of the debate on the report of the Commission at the sixty-ninth session of the General Assembly, together with such written statements as delegations may circulate in conjunction with their oral statements, and to prepare and distribute a topical summary of the debate, following established practice;
	37.	Requests the Secretariat to circulate to States, as soon as possible after the conclusion of the session of the International Law Commission, chapter II of its report containing a summary of the work of that session, chapter III containing the specific issues on which the views of Governments would be of particular interest to the Commission and the draft articles adopted on either first or second reading by the Commission;
	38.	Also requests the Secretariat to make the complete report of the International Law Commission available as soon as possible after the conclusion of the session of the Commission for the consideration of Member States with due anticipation and no later than the prescribed time limit for reports in the General Assembly;
	39.	Encourages the International Law Commission to continue to consider ways in which specific issues on which the views of Governments would be of particular interest to the Commission could be framed so as to help Governments to have a better appreciation of the issues on which responses are required;
	40.	Recommends that the debate on the report of the International Law Commission at the seventieth session of the General Assembly commence on 2 November 2015.

68th plenary meeting
10 December 2014

1 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 10 (A/69/10).
2 Resolution 2625 (XXV), annex.
3 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 10 (A/69/10), chap. IV, sect. E.
4 Ibid., chap. V, sect. C.
5 Ibid., chap. VI, sect. C.
6 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 10 (A/69/10), para. 53.
7 Ibid., para. 266.
8 The inclusion of the topic was guided by the criteria for selection of the topics adopted by the Commission in 1998 (Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-third Session, Supplement No. 10 and corrigendum (A/53/10 and Corr.1), para. 553).
9 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-first Session, Supplement No. 10 and corrigendum (A/51/10 and Corr.1), annex II.
10 Ibid., Sixty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 10 (A/66/10), paras. 370-388.
11 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 10 (A/66/10).
12 See resolutions 32/151, para. 10, and 37/111, para. 5, and all subsequent resolutions on the annual reports of the International Law Commission to the General Assembly.
13 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 10 (A/68/10), para. 183.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1468733E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/69/118<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/69/118General AssemblyDistr.: General
18 December 2014Sixty-ninth session
Agenda item 78 

14-66960 (E)
*1466960*Please recycle 

A/RES/69/118Report of the International Law Commission on the work of its sixty-sixth session

Report of the International Law Commission on the work of its sixty-sixth sessionA/RES/69/118

6/6

5/6

