[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 21 December 2012
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/67/437/Add.6)]
67/212.	Implementation of the Convention on Biological Diversity and its contribution to sustainable development
	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 64/203 of 21 December 2009, 65/161 of 20 December 2010 and 66/202 of 22 December 2011 and previous resolutions relating to the Convention on Biological Diversity,1
	Recalling also the outcomes of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in June 1992,2 the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21,3 the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development4 and the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development (Johannesburg Plan of Implementation),5 the outcome document of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, entitled "The future we want",6 and the outcome document of the high-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly on the Millennium Development Goals,7
	Reaffirming the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development8 and its principles,
	Recalling the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples,9
	Recalling also that the objectives of the Convention, to be pursued in accordance with its relevant provisions, are the conservation of biological diversity, the sustainable use of its components and the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising out of the utilization of genetic resources, including by appropriate access to genetic resources and by appropriate transfer of relevant technologies, taking into account all rights over those resources and to those technologies, and by appropriate funding, 
	Reaffirming the intrinsic value of biological diversity as well as the ecological, genetic, social, economic, scientific, educational, cultural, recreational and aesthetic values of biological diversity and its critical role in maintaining ecosystems that provide essential services, which are critical foundations for sustainable development and human well-being, 
	Recognizing that the achievement of the three objectives of the Convention is crucial for sustainable development, poverty eradication and the improvement of human well-being and a major factor underpinning the achievement of the internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals, 
	Reaffirming that, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and the principles of international law, States have the sovereign right to exploit their own resources pursuant to their own environmental policies and the responsibility to ensure that activities within their jurisdiction or control do not cause damage to the environment of other States or of areas beyond the limits of national jurisdiction, 
	Recalling that, in its resolution 65/161, the General Assembly declared the decade 2011-2020 the United Nations Decade on Biodiversity, with a view to contributing to the implementation of the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity 2011-2020,10
	Recognizing that the traditional knowledge, innovations and practices of indigenous and local communities make an important contribution to the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity, and that their wider application can support social well-being and sustainable livelihoods, 
	Taking note of decision XI/14 adopted by the Conference of the Parties to the Convention at its eleventh meeting,11 in which the parties, noting the recommendations contained in paragraphs 26 and 27 of the report of the Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues on its tenth session,12 requested the Ad Hoc Open-ended Intersessional Working Group on Article 8 (j) and Related Provisions, taking into account submissions by parties, other Governments, relevant stakeholders and indigenous and local communities, to consider this matter and all its implications for the Convention and the parties, at its next meeting, for further consideration by the Conference of the Parties at its twelfth meeting,
	Noting the adoption by the Conference of the Parties to the Convention, at its tenth meeting, of the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits Arising from Their Utilization to the Convention on Biological Diversity,13 and acknowledging the role of access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their utilization in contributing to the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity, poverty eradication and environmental sustainability and thereby to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals, 
	Noting also that 192 States and 1 regional economic integration organization are parties to the Convention and that 163 States and 1 regional economic integration organization are parties to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety to the Convention on Biological Diversity,14
	Noting further that 91 States and 1 regional economic integration organization have signed the Nagoya Protocol,
	Recalling the adoption by the Conference of the Parties to the Convention at its ninth meeting of the strategy for resource mobilization in support of the achievement of the three objectives of the Convention,15 as well as decisions X/316 and XI/411 adopted by the Conference of the Parties at its tenth and eleventh meetings on the review of its implementation, including the establishment of preliminary targets,
	Expressing deep appreciation to the Government of India for hosting the eleventh meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention, from 8 to 19 October 2012, and the sixth meeting of the Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Cartagena Protocol, from 1 to 5 October 2012, both held in Hyderabad, and welcoming the decision by the Conference of the Parties at its eleventh meeting to endorse the offer of the Government of the Republic of Korea to host the twelfth meeting of the Conference of the Parties, the seventh meeting of the Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Cartagena Protocol and the first meeting of the Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Nagoya Protocol, all due to be held in the second half of 2014,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Executive Secretary of the Convention on Biological Diversity on the work of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention;17
	2.	Notes with appreciation the recent appointment of the new Executive Secretary, and expresses its support for his tenure; 
	3.	Reaffirms the outcome document of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, entitled "The future we want",6 and, inter alia, the commitments concerning biodiversity; 
	4.	Welcomes the outcomes of the eleventh meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention;11 
	5.	Recognizes that parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity1 have reiterated that resources, financial, human and technical, need to be mobilized from all sources and that this should be balanced with the effective implementation of the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity 2011-2020,10 stresses the need for further consideration of the evaluation of all resources mobilized in terms of the biodiversity outcomes achieved, and in this regard welcomes the decision of the parties to the Convention18 on an overall substantial increase in total biodiversity-related funding for the implementation of the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity 2011-2020 from a variety of sources, including national and international resource mobilization, international cooperation and the exploration of new and innovative financial mechanisms; 
	6.	Welcomes the initiatives undertaken by parties to the Convention and relevant stakeholders that aim to effectively implement the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity 2011-2020, expresses appreciation for the contribution made by the Government of India at the eleventh meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention through the Hyderabad Pledge, which aims to strengthen institutional mechanisms and enhance technical and human capabilities and includes earmarked funds to promote similar capacity-building in developing countries, and encourages parties in a position to do so to undertake similar initiatives; 
	7.	Encourages Governments and all stakeholders, in line with the provisions of the Convention, to take measures that aim to share, in a fair and equitable way, the results of the research and development and the benefits arising from the commercial and other utilization of genetic resources on mutually agreed terms; 
	8. 	Recognizes the role indigenous and local communities can have in the stewardship and sustainable management of natural renewable resources, and the possible role of market- and non-market-based approaches in the management of those resources; 
	9.	Calls upon parties and all stakeholders to incorporate, within their national strategies and action plans, measures to respect, preserve and maintain knowledge, innovations and practices of indigenous and local communities embodying traditional lifestyles relevant for the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity and promote their wider application with the approval and involvement of the holders of such knowledge, innovations and practices, and to encourage the equitable sharing of the benefits arising from the utilization of such knowledge, innovations and practices; 
	10. 	Stresses the importance of private sector engagement for the implementation of the three objectives of the Convention and in achieving biodiversity targets, and invites businesses to align their policies and practices more explicitly with the objectives of the Convention, including through partnerships; 
	11.	Recognizes that the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity can significantly contribute to disaster risk reduction and to reducing the adverse impacts of climate change, including by adding resilience to fragile ecosystems and making them less vulnerable; 
	12. 	Encourages parties, in close collaboration with relevant stakeholders, to take concrete measures towards achieving the objectives of the Convention and the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits Arising from Their Utilization,13 requests parties, in close collaboration with relevant stakeholders, to coherently and efficiently implement their obligations and commitments under the Convention, and in this regard emphasizes the need to comprehensively address at all levels the difficulties that impede the full implementation of the Convention; 
	13.	Urges the parties to the Convention to facilitate the transfer of technology for the effective implementation of the Convention in accordance with its provisions, and in this regard takes note of the strategy for the practical implementation of the programme of work on technology transfer and scientific and technological cooperation developed by the Ad Hoc Technical Expert Group on Technology Transfer and Scientific and Technological Cooperation, as well as of decision XI/2, entitled "Review of progress in implementation of national biodiversity strategies and action plans and related capacity-building support to parties";11 
	14.	Calls upon Governments and all stakeholders to take appropriate measures to mainstream consideration of the socioeconomic impacts and benefits of the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity and its components, as well as of ecosystems that provide essential services, into relevant programmes and policies at all levels, in accordance with national legislation, circumstances and priorities; 
	15.	Reaffirms the importance of continuing to pursue more efficient and coherent implementation of the three objectives of the Convention, and calls upon parties and stakeholders to strengthen international cooperation measures for the fulfilment of obligations contained in the Convention, including through addressing implementation gaps, particularly with regard to article 15 of the Convention; 
	16.	Notes the ongoing work of the Joint Liaison Group of the secretariats and offices of the relevant subsidiary bodies of the Convention on Biological Diversity, the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa,19 and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change20 (the Rio conventions) and of the Liaison Group of Biodiversity-related Conventions, acknowledges the importance of improving coherence in the implementation of those conventions, recognizes the importance of enhancing synergies among the biodiversity-related conventions, without prejudice to their specific objectives, and encourages the conferences of the parties to the biodiversity-related multilateral environmental agreements to consider strengthening efforts in this regard, taking into account relevant experiences and bearing in mind the respective independent legal status and mandates of those instruments; 
	17.	Reaffirms the importance of achieving the Aichi Biodiversity Targets, adopted by the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity at its tenth meeting,10  and the implementation of the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity 2011-2020; 
	18.	Notes the efforts to mainstream the Aichi Biodiversity Targets in the contribution of the United Nations system to support the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity 2011-2020, and invites the United Nations system to continue facilitating cooperation among its members in support of the implementation of the Strategic Plan; 
	19.	Invites countries that have not yet done so to ratify or accede to the Convention; 
	20.	Invites parties to the Convention to ratify or accede to the Nagoya Protocol, so as to ensure its early entry into force and its implementation, and furthermore requests the Executive Secretary, in collaboration with relevant organizations, to continue supporting capacity-building and development activities to support the ratification, early entry into force and implementation of the Nagoya Protocol, and in this regard notes the Nagoya Protocol Implementation Fund within the Global Environment Facility, aimed at supporting concrete capacity development projects for the implementation of the Nagoya Protocol; 
	21.	Welcomes the establishment of the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services and its potential benefit to Governments, invites an early commencement of its work, in order to provide the best available policy-relevant information on biodiversity to assist decision makers, and encourages Member States that have not yet done so to become members of the Platform; 
	22.	Decides to devote one of the special events of the Second Committee during the sixty-eighth session of the General Assembly, as part of the United Nations Decade on Biodiversity and to further efforts to improve coherence, to a joint briefing by the United Nations Environment Programme, the World Intellectual Property Organization, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the secretariat of the Convention on Biological Diversity and the relevant United Nations bodies on the implementation of the objectives of the Convention, including actions undertaken to promote access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their utilization and associated traditional knowledge, and to include an executive summary of the event in the note by the Secretary-General on the implementation of United Nations environmental conventions21 to the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session, before the twelfth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention;
	23. 	Encourages parties and all stakeholders, institutions and organizations concerned to consider the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity 2011-2020 and the Aichi Biodiversity Targets in the elaboration of the post-2015 United Nations development agenda, taking into account the three dimensions of sustainable development; 
	24.	Invites the secretariat of the Convention to report, through the Secretary-General, to the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session on the advancement of the implementation of the Convention and the Aichi Biodiversity Targets, including on difficulties encountered in the process of their implementation; 
	25.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-eighth session, under the item entitled "Sustainable development", the sub-item entitled "Convention on Biological Diversity". 

61st plenary meeting
21 December 2012

1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1760, No. 30619.
2 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 
3-14 June 1992, vol. I, Resolutions Adopted by the Conference (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum), resolution 1, annexes I and II.
3 Resolution S-19/2, annex.
4 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 
26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
5 Ibid., resolution 2, annex.
6 Resolution 66/288, annex.
7 Resolution 65/1.
8 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 
3-14 June 1992, vol. I, Resolutions Adopted by the Conference (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum), resolution 1, annex I.
9 Resolution 61/295, annex.
10 See United Nations Environment Programme, document UNEP/CBD/COP/10/27, annex, decision X/2.
11 See United Nations Environment Programme, document UNEP/CBD/COP/11/35, annex I.
12 Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2011, Supplement No. 23 and corrigendum (E/2011/43 and Corr.1). 
13 See United Nations Environment Programme, document UNEP/CBD/COP/10/27, annex, decision X/1.
14 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2226, No. 30619.
15 See United Nations Environment Programme, document UNEP/CBD/COP/9/29, annex I, decision IX/11.
16 See United Nations Environment Programme, document UNEP/CBD/COP/10/27, annex.
17 A/67/295, sect. III. 
18 Decision XI/4, entitled "Review of implementation of the strategy for resource mobilization, including the establishment of targets", adopted at the eleventh meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention (see United Nations Environment Programme, document UNEP/CBD/COP/11/35, annex I).
19 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1954, No. 33480.
20 Ibid., vol. 1771, No. 30822.
21 Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the reports submitted by the secretariats of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa, and the Convention on Biological Diversity. 
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1249132E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/67/212<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/67/212General AssemblyDistr.: General
 15 March 2013Sixty-seventh session
Agenda item 20 (f)

12-49132
*1249132*Please recycle 

A/RES/67/212Implementation of the Convention on Biological Diversity 
and its contribution to sustainable development

Implementation of the Convention on Biological Diversity 
and its contribution to sustainable developmentA/RES/67/212

6/6

5/5

