[DU1]

Resolution adopted by the General Assembly

[on the report of the Third Committee (A/55/595 and Corr.1 and 2)]
55/67.  Traffic in women and girls


	The General Assembly,
	Reaffirming the principles set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,1 the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,2 the International Covenants on Human Rights,3 the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment,4 the Convention on the Rights of the Child5 and the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women,6
	Welcoming the adoption by the General Assembly of the two Optional Protocols to the Convention on the Rights of the Child,7 in particular the Optional Protocol on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography, and the increasing number of Member States that have signed and ratified these Optional Protocols,
	Recalling all previous resolutions on the problem of the traffic in women and girls adopted by the General Assembly, the Commission on the Status of Women, the Commission on Human Rights and the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, as well as the Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Persons and of the Exploitation of the Prostitution of Others,8 as well as the conclusions on violence against women9 adopted on 13 March 1998 by the Commission on the Status of Women at its forty-second session and the recommendations of the Working Group on Contemporary Forms of Slavery10 adopted on 21 August 1998 by the Subcommission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities11 at its fiftieth session,
	Reaffirming the provisions of the outcomes of the World Conference on Human Rights, held in Vienna from 14 to 25 June 1993,12 the International Conference on Population and Development,13 the World Summit for Social Development,14 the Fourth World Conference on Women,15 the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly, entitled "Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the twenty-first century", held in New York from 5 to 9 June 2000,16 and the twenty-fourth special session of the Assembly, entitled "World Summit for Social Development and beyond: achieving social development for all in a globalizing world", held in Geneva from 26 June to 1 July 2000,17 as well as the Ninth United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders, held in Cairo from 29 April to 8 May 1995,18 and the Tenth Congress,19 pertaining to the traffic in women and girls,
	Welcoming the inclusion of gender-related crimes in the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, adopted on 17 July 1998 by the United Nations Diplomatic Conference of Plenipotentiaries on the Establishment of an International Criminal Court,20
	Noting the work of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Elaboration of a Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, in particular the elaboration of the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children,21
	Reaffirming that sexual violence and trafficking in women and girls for purposes of economic exploitation, sexual exploitation through prostitution and other forms of sexual exploitation and contemporary forms of slavery are serious violations of human rights,
	Seriously concerned at the increasing number of women and girl children, in particular from developing countries and from some countries with economies in transition, who are being trafficked to developed countries, as well as within and between regions and States, and acknowledging that the problem of trafficking also includes the victimizing of boys,
	Welcoming bilateral and regional cooperation mechanisms and initiatives to address the problem of trafficking in women and girls,
	Welcoming also the efforts of Governments and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations participating in the meeting of the Asian Regional Initiative against Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, held in Manila from 29 to 31 March 2000, to develop a regional action plan against trafficking in persons, especially women and children,22
	Welcoming further the efforts of the European Union to develop a comprehensive European policy and programmes on trafficking in human beings, as expressed in the conclusions of the European Council at its meeting held in Tampere, Finland, on 15 and 16 October 1999,23 and the activities of the Council of Europe and of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe in this field,
	Acknowledging the work being done by intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations in compiling information on the scale and complexity of the problem of trafficking, in providing shelter for trafficked women and children and in effecting their voluntary repatriation to their countries of origin,
	Recognizing that global efforts, including international cooperation and technical assistance programmes, to eradicate trafficking in persons, in particular women and children, demand strong political commitment by and the active cooperation of all Governments of countries of origin, transit and destination,
	Deeply concerned about the unabated use of new information technologies, including the Internet, for purposes of prostitution, child pornography, paedophilia and any other forms of sexual exploitation of children, trafficking in women as brides and sex tourism,
	Gravely concerned at the increasing activities of transnational criminal organizations and others that profit from international trafficking in women and children without regard to dangerous and inhumane conditions and in flagrant violation of domestic laws and international standards,
	Stressing once again the need for Governments to provide standard humanitarian treatment to trafficked persons consistent with human rights standards,
	1.	Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General on activities of United Nations bodies and other international organizations pertaining to the problem of trafficking in women and girls;24
	2.	Welcomes the steps taken by human rights treaty bodies, the special rapporteurs and subsidiary bodies of the Commission on Human Rights, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, other United Nations bodies, and international, intergovernmental and governmental organizations, within their mandates, as well as non-governmental organizations, to address the problem of trafficking in women and girls, and encourages them to continue doing so and to share their knowledge and best practices as widely as possible;
	3.	Urges Governments to take appropriate measures to address the root factors, including external factors, that encourage trafficking in women and girls for prostitution and other forms of commercialized sex, forced marriages and forced labour, in order to eliminate trafficking in women, including by strengthening existing legislation with a view to providing better protection of the rights of women and girls and to punishing perpetrators, through both criminal and civil measures;
	4.	Also urges Governments to devise, enforce and strengthen effective measures to combat and eliminate all forms of trafficking in women and girls through a comprehensive anti-trafficking strategy consisting of, inter alia, legislative measures, prevention campaigns, information exchange, assistance and protection for and reintegration of the victims and prosecution of all the offenders involved, including intermediaries;
	5.	Encourages Member States to conclude bilateral, subregional, regional and international agreements, as well as undertake initiatives, including regional initiatives, to address the problem of trafficking in women and girls, such as the Action Plan for the Asia-Pacific region of the Asian Regional Initiative against Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children,22 the European Union initiatives on a comprehensive European policy and programmes on trafficking in human beings as expressed in the conclusions of the European Council at its meeting held in Tampere,23 and the activities of the Council of Europe and of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe in this field;
	6.	Calls upon all Governments to criminalize trafficking in women and children, in particular girls, in all its forms, to condemn and penalize all those offenders involved, including intermediaries, whether their offence was committed in their own or in a foreign country, while ensuring that the victims of those practices are not penalized, and to penalize persons in authority found guilty of sexually assaulting victims of trafficking in their custody;
	7.	Invites Governments to consider setting up or strengthening a national coordinating mechanism, for example, a national rapporteur or an inter-agency body, with the participation of civil society, including non-governmental organizations, to encourage the exchange of information and to report on data, root causes, factors and trends in violence against women, in particular trafficking;
	8.	Urges concerned Governments, in cooperation with intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, to support and allocate resources for programmes to strengthen preventive action, in particular education and campaigns to increase public awareness of the issue at the national and grass-roots levels;
	9.	Calls upon concerned Governments to allocate resources to provide comprehensive programmes designed to heal, rehabilitate and reintegrate into society and communities victims of trafficking, including through job training, legal assistance and health care, and by taking measures to cooperate with non-governmental organizations to provide for the social, medical and psychological care of the victims;
	10.	Encourages Governments, in cooperation with intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, to undertake campaigns aimed at clarifying opportunities, limitations and rights in the event of migration so as to enable women to make informed decisions and to prevent them from becoming victims of trafficking;
	11.	Also encourages Governments to intensify collaboration with non-governmental organizations to develop and implement programmes for effective counselling, training and reintegration into society of victims of trafficking, and programmes that provide shelter and helplines to victims or potential victims;
	12.	Invites Governments to take steps, including witness protection programmes, to enable women who are victims of trafficking to make complaints to the police and to be available when required by the criminal justice system, and to ensure that during this time women have access to social, medical, financial and legal assistance, and protection, as appropriate;
	13.	Also invites Governments to consider preventing, within the legal framework and in accordance with national policies, victims of trafficking, in particular women and girls, from being prosecuted for their illegal entry or residence, taking into account that they are victims of exploitation;
	14.	Further invites Governments to encourage Internet service providers to adopt or strengthen self-regulatory measures to promote the responsible use of the Internet with a view to eliminating trafficking in women and children, in particular girls;
	15.	Stresses the need for a global approach to eradicate trafficking in women and children and the importance, in this regard, of systematic data collection and comprehensive studies, and encourages Governments to develop systematic data-collection methods and to update continuously information on trafficking in women and girls, including the analysis of the modus operandi of trafficking syndicates;
	16.	Urges Governments to strengthen national programmes to combat trafficking in women and girls through sustained bilateral, regional and international cooperation, taking into account innovative approaches and best practices, and invites Governments, United Nations bodies and organizations, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations and the private sector to undertake collaborative and joint research and studies on trafficking in women and girls that can serve as a basis for policy formulation or change;
	17.	Invites Governments, once again, with the support of the United Nations, to formulate training manuals for law enforcement and medical personnel and judicial officers who handle cases of trafficked women and girls, taking into account current research and materials on traumatic stress and gender-sensitive counselling techniques, with a view to sensitizing them to the special needs of victims;
	18.	Invites State parties to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,2 the Convention on the Rights of the Child5 and the International Covenants on Human Rights3 to include information and statistics on trafficking in women and girls as part of their national reports to their respective committees;
	19.	Encourages Governments as well as intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, the human rights treaty bodies, the special rapporteurs, especially the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on violence against women, its causes and consequences, the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography and the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on the human rights of migrants, and subsidiary bodies of the Commission on Human Rights and other relevant United Nations bodies, within their respective mandates, to participate in and contribute to the work of the Working Group on Contemporary Forms of Slavery of the Subcommission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights at its twenty-sixth session, in 2001, which will focus on the issue of trafficking;
	20.	Requests the Secretary-General to compile, as reference and guidance, successful interventions and strategies in addressing the various dimensions of the problem of trafficking in women and children, in particular girls, based on reports, research and other materials from within the United Nations, including the United Nations Office for Drug Control and Crime Prevention, as well as from outside the United Nations, and to submit a report on the implementation of the present resolution to the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session.

81st plenary meeting
4 December 2000
1 Resolution 217 A (III).
2 Resolution 34/180, annex.
3 Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
4 Resolution 39/46, annex.
5 Resolution 44/25, annex.
6 See resolution 48/104.
7 Resolution 54/263, annexes I and II.
8 Resolution 317 (IV).
9 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1998, Supplement No. 7 and corrigendum (E/1998/27 and Corr.1), chap. I.
10 E/CN.4/1999/4-E/CN.4/Sub.2/1998/45, chap. II, sect. A, resolution 1998/19, and E/CN.4/Sub.2/1998/14, sect. VI.B.
11 Subsequently renamed the Subcommission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights (see Economic and Social Council decision 1999/256).
12 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
13 Report of the International Conference on Population and Development, Cairo, 5-13 September 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.95.XIII.18), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
14 Report of the World Summit for Social Development, Copenhagen, 6-12 March 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.8), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.
15 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.
16 Resolution S-23/3, annex.
17 Resolution S-24/2, annex.
18 See A/CONF.169/16/Rev.1.
19 See Tenth United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders, Vienna, 10-17 April 2000: report prepared by the Secretariat (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.00.IV.8).
20 See A/CONF.183/9, art. 8.
21 Adopted by the General Assembly in its resolution 55/25 of 15 November 2000 (annex II).
22 See A/C.3/55/3, annex.
23 See Tampere European Council, Presidency Conclusions (SN 200/99).
24 A/55/322.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0056341E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/55/67<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

A/RES/55/67


A/RES/55/67


6
    

5
    

United NationsA/RES/55/67General AssemblyDistr.: General
31 January 2001Fifty-fifth session
Agenda item 107

00 56341

