[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 20 December 2006
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/61/422/Add.5)]
61/202.	Implementation of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 60/201 of 22 December 2005 and other resolutions relating to the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa,1
	Reaffirming the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation"),2 which recognizes the Convention as one of the tools for poverty eradication, 
	Recalling the 2005 World Summit Outcome,3
	Reaffirming the universal membership of the Convention, and acknowledging that desertification and drought are problems of a global dimension in that they affect all regions in the world,
	Noting that the timely and effective implementation of the Convention would help to achieve the internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals, and encouraging affected country parties to include, as appropriate, in their national development strategies measures to combat desertification,
	Recognizing the need for the provision of adequate resources for Global Environment Facility focal areas, including a focus on land degradation, primarily desertification and deforestation, 
	Stressing the need for further diversification of funding sources to address land degradation, in accordance with articles 20 and 21 of the Convention,
	Noting the decision of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention at its seventh session to establish an ad hoc intergovernmental intersessional working group with the mandate to review the report of the Joint Inspection Unit in full and, building on the results of that review and other inputs, to develop a draft ten-year strategic plan and framework to enhance the implementation of the Convention,4
	Recognizing the need to provide the secretariat of the Convention with stable, adequate and predictable resources in order to enable it to continue to discharge its responsibilities in an efficient and timely manner, and further recognizing the provision in section A on budget reform in the decision of the Conference of the Parties at its seventh session on the programme and budget for the biennium 2006-2007,5 including the request that the Executive Secretary take additional measures necessary to address the recommendations of the Joint Inspection Unit,6 ensure that the financial rules are fully respected in the future and report on this matter to the meeting of the Bureau and in the performance report for the biennium 2006-2007,
	Noting the decision of the Conference of the Parties at its seventh session to introduce the euro as the budget and accounting currency from 2008-2009,5 
	Recalling its resolution 58/211 of 23 December 2003, in which it declared 2006 the International Year of Deserts and Desertification, 
	Noting the activities undertaken within the framework of the celebration of the Year, 
	Underlining the importance of the issue of desertification in the process of the Commission on Sustainable Development, in particular in the context of its sixteenth and seventeenth sessions dealing with thematic clusters on agriculture, rural development, land, drought and desertification, 
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;7  
	2.	Reaffirms its resolve to support and strengthen the implementation of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa1 to address causes of desertification and land degradation, as well as poverty resulting from land degradation, through, inter alia, the mobilization of adequate and predictable financial resources, the transfer of technology and capacity-building at all levels;
	3.	Reiterates its call upon Governments, where appropriate, in collaboration with relevant multilateral organizations, including the Global Environment Facility implementation agencies, to integrate desertification into their plans and strategies for sustainable development;
	4.	Takes note with appreciation of the outcome of the fourth replenishment of the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund,8 including the pledges made by the international community to the Trust Fund at the third Global Environment Facility Assembly, held in Cape Town, South Africa, on 29 and 30 August 2006, and stresses the importance of the fulfilment of the commitments; 
	5.	Invites the Global Environment Facility to continue to make resources available for capacity-building activities in affected country parties implementing the Convention;
	6.	Welcomes the establishment of the ad hoc intergovernmental intersessional working group with the mandate to review the report of the Joint Inspection Unit in full and, building on the results of that review and other inputs, to develop a draft ten-year strategic plan and framework to enhance the implementation of the Convention, for submission to the Conference of the Parties to the Convention at its eighth session, and invites parties to the Convention, as well as other stakeholders, to submit views and comments to the working group in order to assist it in its work;
	7.	Invites parties to contribute on a voluntary basis either to the Supplementary Fund or in kind to cover the cost of the activities of the intergovernmental intersessional working group in order to allow it to fulfil its mandate;
	8.	Requests the Secretary-General, taking into account the institutional linkage and related administrative arrangements between the Convention secretariat and the United Nations Secretariat, to facilitate the implementation of decision 23 of the Conference of the Parties at its seventh session pertaining to the introduction of the euro as the budget and accounting currency of the Convention;5 
	9.	Invites Member States to be represented at the highest appropriate level at the sessions of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention;
	10.	Expresses its appreciation for the financial contributions made by countries and other relevant stakeholders to carry out activities in the context of the celebration of the International Year of Deserts and Desertification; 
	11.	Requests the secretariat of the Commission on Sustainable Development to work closely with the secretariat of the Convention in the preparations for the sixteenth and seventeenth sessions of the Commission in the areas relevant to the Convention; 
	12.	Takes note of the ongoing work of the liaison group of the secretariats and offices of the relevant subsidiary bodies of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change,9 the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa, and the Convention on Biological Diversity,10 and further encourages continuing cooperation in order to promote complementarities among the secretariats, while respecting their independent legal status; 
	13.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-second session the sub-item entitled "Implementation of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa"; 
	14.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its sixty-second session on the implementation of the present resolution.

83rd plenary meeting
20 December 2006
1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1954, No. 33480.
2 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 2, annex.
3 See resolution 60/1.
4 ICCD/COP(7)/16/Add.1, decision 3/COP.7.
5 Ibid., decision 23/COP.7.
6 See JIU/REP/2005/5.
7 A/61/225, sect. II.
8 Global Environment Facility, document GEF/A.3/6.  Available from www.gefweb.org.
9 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1771, No. 30822.
10 Ibid., vol. 1760, No. 30619.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0650649E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/61/202<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/61/202General AssemblyDistr.: General
22 February 2007Sixty-first session
Agenda item 53 (e)

06-50649

A/RES/61/202

A/RES/61/202

2

3

