[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 20 December 2004
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/59/495)]
59/161.	Providing support to the Government of Afghanistan in its efforts to eliminate illicit opium and foster stability and security in the region


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling the United Nations Millennium Declaration1 outlining the interrelated commitments, goals and targets to be achieved on, inter alia, development, peace and security and setting the required framework for international cooperation for achieving those goals,
	Recognizing that the threat emanating from illicit opium poppy cultivation and production of and trafficking in illicit opium, as addressed at the Conference on Drug Routes from Central Asia to Europe, held in Paris on 21 and 22 May 2003, is a serious challenge to the security and stability of Afghanistan, its neighbouring countries and the region and poses a problem for countries throughout the world,
	Taking note of Afghanistan: Opium Survey 2003, published by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime,
	Recognizing the strong and continuing commitment made by the Transitional Administration of Afghanistan at the institutional, legal and administrative levels to eliminate opium poppy cultivation by 2013,
	Reaffirming the commitments undertaken by Member States in the Political Declaration adopted by the General Assembly at its twentieth special session,2 in which Member States recognized that action against the world drug problem was a common and shared responsibility and expressed their conviction that it must be addressed in a multilateral setting,
	Recalling that the Security Council, on 17 June 2003, called upon the international community to provide assistance to the Transitional Administration of Afghanistan in collaboration with the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime and in line with the national drug control strategy,3
	Recalling also that, in section II of its resolution 58/141 of 22 December 2003, the General Assembly reaffirmed the Joint Ministerial Statement and further measures to implement the action plans emanating from the twentieth special session of the General Assembly, adopted during the ministerial segment of the forty-sixth session of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs,4 and recommended that adequate help be provided to Afghanistan in support of the commitment of the Transitional Administration of Afghanistan to eliminate illicit opium,
	Stressing the importance and urgency of the implementation of the five action plans adopted by the International Counter-Narcotics Conference on Afghanistan, held in Kabul on 8 and 9 February 2004, which were to form part of the discussion at the international conference entitled "Afghanistan and the International Community: a Partnership for the Future", held in Berlin on 31 March and 1 April 2004, and the conclusion of the Kabul conference that the illicit drug issue is a top priority of all those interested in securing the future of Afghanistan,
	Recalling that, in the Joint Ministerial Statement and further measures to implement the action plans emanating from the twentieth special session of the General Assembly, the ministers and other government representatives participating in the ministerial segment of the forty-sixth session of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs recommended that adequate help be provided to Afghanistan within the framework of the comprehensive international strategy carried out, inter alia, under the auspices of the United Nations and through other multilateral forums, in support of the commitment of the Transitional Government of Afghanistan to eliminate the illicit cultivation of opium poppy and in response to the unique situation of that country, reaffirmed that that should help the provision of alternative livelihoods and the fight against illicit trafficking in drugs and precursors within Afghanistan and in neighbouring States and countries along trafficking routes, including the strengthening of "security belts" in the region, and that extensive efforts had to be made to reduce the demand for drugs globally in order to contribute to the sustainability of the elimination of illicit cultivation in Afghanistan and, in that context, affirmed that their response to that unique situation would not detract from their commitment and resources devoted to the fight against drugs in other parts of the world,5
	Recalling also that the International Narcotics Control Board, in its report for 2003, pointed out that trade in Afghan opiates generated funds that corrupted institutions, financed terrorism and insurgency and led to destabilization of the region,6
	Recalling further the appeal to the international community made by the International Narcotics Control Board on 12 February 2004 to support fully the Afghan authorities in addressing the drug control situation, in order to meet the requirements of the international drug treaties, including article 14 of the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 19617 and that Convention as amended by the 1972 Protocol,8
	1.	Welcomes the bilateral and multilateral support being provided by the international community, through the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime and other organizations;
	2.	Expresses its support for the efforts of Member States aimed at strengthening regional cooperation in order to counter the threat to the international community posed by the illicit cultivation of opium poppy in Afghanistan and its illicit trade;
	3.	Calls upon the international community to enhance financial and technical support to Afghanistan in order to enable the Government to implement successfully its national drug control strategy and thereby reduce the demand for illicit drugs in Afghanistan and the threat that illicit opium poppy cultivation and illicit opium trade have created to the peace, stability and socio-economic recovery of Afghanistan and to the security of the region and the other parts of the world;
	4.	Urges all stakeholders to accelerate efforts to implement a combined strategy, comprising law enforcement, eradication, interdiction, demand reduction and awareness-building, including alternative livelihoods conceived in a broader development context than currently understood, with a view to creating sustainable livelihoods, independent of illicit opium;
	5.	Encourages the Transitional Administration of Afghanistan to accelerate the implementation of the commitment that it courageously made to the five action plans adopted by the International Counter-Narcotics Conference on Afghanistan, held in Kabul on 8 and 9 February 2004;
	6.	Reaffirms the need to strengthen measures to reduce the global demand for illicit drugs, in order to support and contribute to the sustainability of efforts to eliminate illicit opium in Afghanistan;
	7.	Requests the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, subject to the availability of voluntary funds, which might be either from general-purpose funds, in accordance with the Commission on Narcotic Drugs guidelines for the use of general-purpose funds,9 or from earmarked funds, and encourages concerned Member States, international organizations and financial institutions to routinely mainstream counter-narcotics measures as part of their development cooperation strategies, in coordination with the development objectives of the Government of Afghanistan, so that sustainable alternative livelihoods are created in Afghanistan.

74th plenary meeting
20 December 2004
1 See resolution 55/2.
2 Resolution S-20/2, annex.
3 See S/PRST/2003/7; see Resolutions and Decisions of the Security Council, 1 August 2002-31 July 2003.
4 A/58/124, sect. II.A.
5 Ibid., para. 22.
6 See Report of the International Narcotics Control Board for 2003 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.04.XI.1), para. 203.
7 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 520, No. 7515.
8 Ibid., vol. 976, No. 14152.
9 Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2001, Supplement No. 8 (E/2001/28/Rev.1), part two, chap. I, resolution 44/20, annex.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0448592E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/59/161<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/59/161General AssemblyDistr.: General
8 February 2005Fifty-ninth session
Agenda item 97

04-48592

A/RES/59/161

A/RES/59/161

2

3

