[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 22 December 2011
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/66/441)]
66/207.	Implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and strengthening of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 65/165 of 20 December 2010 and all other previous resolutions on the implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and strengthening of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat),
	Recalling also Economic and Social Council resolution 2011/21 of 27 July 2011 and all other previous resolutions of the Council on human settlements,
	Recalling further the goal contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration1 and the 2005 World Summit Outcome2 of achieving a significant improvement in the lives of at least 100 million slum-dwellers by 2020 and the goal contained in the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation")3 to halve, by 2015, the proportion of people who lack access to safe drinking water and sanitation,
	Recalling the Habitat Agenda,4 the Declaration on Cities and Other Human Settlements in the New Millennium,5 the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation3 and the Monterrey Consensus of the International Conference on Financing for Development,6
	Expressing concern about the continuing increase in the number of slum-dwellers in the world, despite the attainment of the Millennium Development Goal target of achieving a significant improvement in the lives of at least 100 million slum-dwellers by 2020,
	Taking note of the outcome document of the High-level Plenary Meeting of the General Assembly on the Millennium Development Goals,7 in particular paragraph 77 (k), in which Heads of State and Government committed themselves to working towards cities without slums, beyond current targets, by reducing slum populations and improving the lives of slum-dwellers, with adequate support of the international community, by prioritizing national urban planning strategies with the participation of all stakeholders, by promoting equal access for people living in slums to public services, including health, education, energy, water and sanitation and adequate shelter, and by promoting sustainable urban and rural development, and encouraging UN-Habitat to continue providing the necessary technical assistance,
	Taking note also of resolution 23/9 of 15 April 2011 of the Governing Council of UN-Habitat, entitled "Global and national strategies and frameworks for improving the lives of slum-dwellers beyond the Millennium Development Goals target",8
	Recognizing the negative impacts of environmental degradation, including climate change, desertification and loss of biodiversity, on human settlements,
	Welcoming with appreciation the important contribution of UN-Habitat, within its mandate, to more cost-effective transitions between emergency relief, recovery and reconstruction, and also its participation in the Inter-Agency Standing Committee,
	Welcoming the progress being made by UN-Habitat in the implementation of its medium-term strategic and institutional plan for the period 2008-2013 and its efforts, as a non-resident agency, in helping programme countries to mainstream the Habitat Agenda into their respective development frameworks,
	Welcoming also the offer of the Government of Italy and the city of Naples to host the sixth session of the World Urban Forum from 1 to 7 September 2012,
	Recognizing the continuing need for adequate and predictable financial contributions to the United Nations Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation so as to ensure timely, effective and concrete global implementation of the Habitat Agenda, the Declaration on Cities and Other Human Settlements in the New Millennium and the relevant internationally agreed development goals,
	Taking note of resolution 23/10 of 15 April 2011 of the Governing Council of UN-Habitat, entitled "Future activities by the United Nations Human Settlements Programme in urban economy and financial mechanisms for urban upgrading, housing and basic services for the urban poor",8
	Recalling its resolution 64/207 of 21 December 2009, in which it took note of the recommendation made by the Governing Council of UN-Habitat in its resolution 22/1 of 3 April 2009 and, having considered the question of convening, in 2016, a third United Nations conference on housing and sustainable urban development (Habitat III), requested the Secretary-General to prepare a report on that question, in collaboration with the Governing Council, for its consideration at its sixty-sixth session,
	Recalling also that, in its resolution 65/165, it encouraged the Secretary-General, in consultation with the Governing Council of UN-Habitat and in discussion with all the partners of the Habitat Agenda, to consider the possibility of integrating the two themes of "housing finance systems" and "sustainable urbanization" into the preparatory process for Habitat III,
	1.	Takes note of the reports of the Secretary-General on the coordinated implementation of the Habitat Agenda,9 on the implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and strengthening of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)10 and on the third United Nations conference on housing and sustainable urban development (Habitat III);11
	2.	Decides to convene in 2016, in line with the bi-decennial cycle (1976, 1996 and 2016), a third United Nations conference on housing and sustainable urban development (Habitat III) to reinvigorate the global commitment to sustainable urbanization that should focus on the implementation of a "New Urban Agenda", which should build on the Habitat Agenda,4 the Declaration on Cities and Other Human Settlements in the New Millennium5 and the relevant internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration,1 and the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development12 and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation,3 and the outcomes of other major United Nations conferences and summits;
	3.	Acknowledges, in this regard, the importance of the forthcoming United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, to be held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, from 20 to 22 June 2012;
	4.	Emphasizes that the Conference and the preparatory process should take full advantage of planned meetings by aligning with the twenty-fourth and twenty-fifth sessions of the Governing Council of UN-Habitat and with the sixth and seventh sessions of the World Urban Forum, and encourages the regular regional ministerial conferences on housing and urban development and other relevant expert group meetings to support the activities of the preparatory process, taking into account that the Conference and the preparatory process should be carried out in the most inclusive, efficient, effective and improved manner;
	5.	Decides to consider before the end of 2012 the scope, modalities, format and organization of the third United Nations conference on housing and sustainable urban development (Habitat III), in a most efficient and effective manner;
	6.	Invites the Secretary-General to appoint the Executive Director of UN-Habitat to serve as Secretary-General of the third United Nations conference on housing and sustainable urban development and to act as focal point on behalf of the United Nations system;
	7.	Invites Governments and regional and local authorities, in accordance with national legislation, to enumerate the populations living in slums in their countries, regions and urban areas and, on that basis, to set, with the support of the international community, voluntary and realistic national, regional and local targets, to be attained by 2020, with regard to improving significantly the lives of slum-dwellers, in line with resolution 23/9 of the Governing Council of UN-Habitat;8
	8.	Invites UN-Habitat to provide, within its current budget and in line with its medium-term strategic and institutional plan for the period 2008-2013, or its subsequent strategic plan, technical and advisory assistance to Governments and regional and local authorities wishing to assess their slum population levels and trends, set voluntary national, regional and local 2020 targets, prepare national, regional and local slum prevention and upgrading strategies and plans, formulate and implement slum upgrading and housing programmes and monitor the progress of implementation, and to report periodically to the Governing Council and the General Assembly;
	9.	Welcomes the progress made by UN-Habitat in the implementation of its medium-term strategic and institutional plan for the period 2008-2013, and takes note of the conclusions of the midterm review of the implementation of the plan submitted to the Governing Council of UN-Habitat at its twenty-third session;13
	10.	Encourages UN-Habitat to continue to work on the strategic plan for 2014-2019 in consultation with the Committee of Permanent Representatives, in an open and transparent manner, setting realistic and achievable goals for the period it covers;
	11.	Takes note of the report of the Executive Director on the review of the governance structure of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme,14 and encourages UN-Habitat to move this process forward, in cooperation with the Committee of Permanent Representatives, in order to continue on its path towards the improvement of its transparency, accountability, efficiency and effectiveness;
	12.	Notes the request made by the Governing Council of UN-Habitat in its resolution 23/108 that the Executive Director, in building on the lessons learned from the experimental reimbursable seeding operations and slum upgrading facility programmes, shift the focus of the work of UN-Habitat in the area of human settlements financing towards strengthening its normative approaches to urban economy and the promotion of finance for urban upgrading, housing and basic services for the urban poor, while taking into account geographical and regional balance, as well as the request to explore as expeditiously as possible and to select, in consultation with the Committee of Permanent Representatives, a partnership model with development finance institutions for future lending, guarantee and financial advisory services in the urban upgrading and housing finance sectors;
	13.	Reiterates its encouragement to UN-Habitat to continue, within its mandate and in line with its medium-term strategic and institutional plan for the period 2008-2013, its existing cooperation on issues related to cities and climate change and to continue to play a complementary role in matters related to climate change within the United Nations system, in particular in addressing the vulnerability of cities to climate change, including through further normative work and expansion of its technical assistance to towns and cities on local action for the mitigation of urban-based greenhouse gas emissions and adaptation to climate change, with a focus on vulnerable urban populations, slum-dwellers, the urban poor and at-risk populations;
	14.	Stresses the importance of timely action by UN-Habitat in response to natural and human-made disasters, in particular through its work in addressing post-disaster and post-conflict housing and infrastructure needs through its normative and operational work as part of the continuum from emergency relief to recovery and to urban development through effective urban planning;
	15.	Reiterates its support for the dissemination and implementation of the guidelines on decentralization and strengthening of local authorities and the guidelines on access to basic services for all, approved by the Governing Council of UN-Habitat in its resolutions 21/3 of 20 April 200715 and 22/8 of 3 April 2009,16 respectively, and reaffirmed by the Governing Council in its resolution 23/12 of 15 April 2011;8
	16.	Invites the international donor community and financial institutions to contribute generously to UN-Habitat through increased voluntary financial contributions to the United Nations Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation, including the Water and Sanitation Trust Fund and the technical cooperation trust funds, and invites Governments in a position to do so and other stakeholders to provide predictable multi-year funding and increased non-earmarked contributions;
	17.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session a report on the implementation of the present resolution;
	18.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-seventh session the item entitled "Implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and strengthening of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)".

91st plenary meeting
22 December 2011
1 See resolution 55/2.
2 See resolution 60/1.
3 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 
26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 2, annex.
4 Report of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II), Istanbul, 3-14 June 1996 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.97.IV.6), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
5 Resolution S-25/2, annex.
6 Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico, 18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
7 See resolution 65/1.
8 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 8 (A/66/8), annex, sect. B.
9 See A/66/326.
10 A/66/281.
11 A/66/282.
12 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 
26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
13 HSP/GC/23/5/Add.3.
14 HSP/GC/23/2/Add.1.
15 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-second Session, Supplement No. 8 (A/62/8), annex I, sect. B.
16 Ibid., Sixty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 8 (A/64/8), annex I, sect. B.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1147124E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/66/207<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/66/207General AssemblyDistr.: General
14 March 2012Sixty-sixth session
Agenda item 20

11-47124
*1147124*

A/RES/66/207

A/RES/66/207

4

5

