[Start1]

Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 28 August 2017
[without reference to a Main Committee (A/71/L.83)]
71/318.	Second High-level United Nations Conference on South-South Cooperation


	The General Assembly,
	Reaffirming its resolution 33/134 of 19 December 1978, in which it endorsed the Buenos Aires Plan of Action for Promoting and Implementing Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries,1
	Reaffirming also its resolution 64/222 of 21 December 2009, in which it endorsed the Nairobi outcome document of the High-level United Nations Conference on South-South Cooperation,
	Recalling its resolution 71/244 of 21 December 2016, in which it decided to convene a high-level United Nations conference on South-South cooperation on the occasion of the fortieth anniversary of the adoption of the Buenos Aires Plan of Action, no later than the first half of 2019,
	Stressing that South-South cooperation is not a substitute for, but rather a complement to, North-South cooperation,
	Taking note of the growing importance of South-South cooperation, and recognizing the increased role undertaken by the United Nations in supporting economic and technical cooperation activities among developing countries as well as other forms of triangular cooperation,
	Stressing that South-South cooperation, as an important element of international cooperation for development, offers viable opportunities for developing countries in their individual and collective pursuit of sustained economic growth and sustainable development,
	Recalling the United Nations resolutions relevant to South-South cooperation and the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and summits in the economic, social and related fields, acknowledging the Havana Programme of Action adopted by the first South Summit,2 the Marrakech Framework for the Implementation of South-South Cooperation3 and the Doha Plan of Action adopted by the Second South Summit,4
	1.	Decides that the second High-level United Nations Conference on South-South Cooperation:
	(a)	Will be held in Buenos Aires from 20 to 22 March 2019;
	(b)	Will be held at the highest possible level, including Heads of State and Government;
	(c)	Will consist of plenary meetings, to be held on 20 March, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 3 to 6 p.m., and on 21 March, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.; interactive panel discussions on the sub-themes, to be held on 21 March, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., in parallel with the plenary meeting, and from 3 to 6 p.m.; and a closing plenary meeting, to be held on 22 March, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.;
	(d)	Will result in a concise, focused, forward-looking and action-oriented intergovernmentally agreed outcome;
	(e)	Will also result in summaries by the Chair;
	2.	Requests the Secretary-General to provide all necessary assistance to the preparatory process and the High-level Conference, including the preparation of a comprehensive report, consistent with the overarching theme of the Conference, no later than August 2018, reviewing the trends in South-South cooperation and triangular cooperation, including the progress made by the international community, in particular the United Nations, in supporting and promoting such cooperation and identifying new opportunities, as well as challenges and suggestions to overcome them;
	3.	Also requests the Secretary-General to prepare a background note, by the end of January 2018, including proposals for the overarching theme of the High-level Conference, taking into account the important role of South-South and triangular cooperation and the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development,5 and sub-themes for the interactive panel discussions, for the consideration of Member States;
	4.	Requests the United Nations Office for South-South Cooperation to continue to provide the necessary substantive and technical support to the preparatory process for the High-level Conference;
	5.	Encourages Member States and their partners, including non-governmental organizations, to consider preparing reports on South-South and triangular cooperation for the purpose of the High-level Conference, on a voluntary basis, taking into account the themes of the Conference and the outcomes of regional, subregional or sectoral United Nations meetings prior to the Conference;
	6.	Requests the President of the General Assembly to initiate, by the end of November 2018, informal intergovernmental negotiations with all Member States in an open, inclusive and transparent manner, commencing at an appropriate date, to enable sufficient discussion, with a view to producing a draft outcome document by February 2019, prior to the holding of the High-level Conference;
	7.	Decides that the intergovernmental High-level Conference and its preparatory process shall be open to participation by all States Members of the United Nations and all members of the specialized agencies that have observer status with the General Assembly;
	8.	Invites other relevant stakeholders, including organizations and bodies of the United Nations, intergovernmental organizations, international financial institutions and non-governmental organizations, civil society organizations, academic institutions, the scientific community, the private sector and philanthropic organizations whose work is related to the High-level Conference, to participate as observers in the Conference and its preparatory process, and:
	(a)	Invites non-governmental organizations in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council to register with the Secretariat in order to participate in the intergovernmental High-level Conference;
	(b)	Requests the President of the General Assembly to draw up a list of representatives of other relevant non-governmental organizations, civil society organizations, academic institutions, the scientific community, the private sector and philanthropic organizations whose work is related to the High-level Conference who may participate in the Conference and its preparatory process as observers, taking into account the principles of transparency and of equitable geographical representation, to submit the proposed list to Member States, for their consideration on a non-objection basis, and to bring the list to the attention of the Assembly;6
	9.	Requests the Secretary-General to proceed with the organizational arrangements for the High-level Conference, in cooperation with the Government of Argentina, and to provide a note on the organizational aspects of the Conference;
	10.	Encourages all Member States and other relevant stakeholders that are in a position to do so to consider supporting the participation of developing countries, in particular the least developed countries, including by making voluntary contributions through the United Nations Fund for South-South Cooperation, in order to ensure the broadest possible participation;
	11.	Recalls paragraph 30 of its resolution 71/244, in which it decided that all costs relating to the High-level Conference and its preparations would be financed through extrabudgetary resources;
	12.	Welcomes the generous offer of the Government of Argentina to host and assume all costs of the High-level Conference;
	13.	Decides to postpone the twentieth session of the High-level Committee on South-South Cooperation, which was to be held in 2018, to one convenient day in June 2019.

95th plenary meeting
28 August 2017

1 Report of the United Nations Conference on Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries, Buenos Aires, 30 August-12 September 1978 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.78.II.A.11 and corrigendum), chap. I.
2 A/55/74, annex II.
3 A/58/683, annex II.
4 A/60/111, annex II.
5 Resolution 70/1.
6 The list will include proposed as well as final names. The general basis of any objections, if requested by one or more States Members of the United Nations or States members of the specialized agencies, will be made known to the Office of the President of the General Assembly and the requester.
[Start1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1727047E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/71/318<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/71/318General AssemblyDistr.: General
30 August 2017Seventy-first session
Agenda item 13

17-14896 (E)
*1714896*Please recycle 

A/RES/71/318Second High-level United Nations Conference on South-South Cooperation

Second High-level United Nations Conference on South-South CooperationA/RES/71/318

2/2

3/3

