[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 5 December 2007
[on the report of the First Committee (A/62/392)]
62/53.	Regional confidence-building measures: activities of the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its previous relevant resolutions, in particular resolution 61/96 of 6 December 2006, 
	Recalling also the guidelines for general and complete disarmament adopted at its tenth special session, the first special session devoted to disarmament, 
	Bearing in mind the establishment by the Secretary-General on 28 May 1992 of the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa, the purpose of which is to encourage arms limitation, disarmament, non-proliferation and development in the subregion,
	Convinced that the resources released by disarmament, including regional disarmament, can be devoted to economic and social development and to the protection of the environment for the benefit of all peoples, in particular those of the developing countries,
	Considering the importance and effectiveness of confidence-building measures taken on the initiative and with the participation of all States concerned and taking into account the specific characteristics of each region, since such measures can contribute to regional stability and to international peace and security,
	Convinced that development can be achieved only in a climate of peace, security and mutual confidence both within and among States,
	Recalling the Brazzaville Declaration on Cooperation for Peace and Security in Central Africa,1 the Bata Declaration for the Promotion of Lasting Democracy, Peace and Development in Central Africa2 and the Yaoundé Declaration on Peace, Security and Stability in Central Africa,3
	Bearing in mind resolutions 1196 (1998) and 1197 (1998), adopted by the Security Council on 16 and 18 September 1998 respectively, following its consideration of the report of the Secretary-General on the causes of conflict and the promotion of durable peace and sustainable development in Africa,4
	Emphasizing the need to strengthen the capacity for conflict prevention and peacekeeping in Africa,
	1.	Reaffirms its support for efforts aimed at promoting confidence-building measures at the regional and subregional levels in order to ease tensions and conflicts in Central Africa and to further peace, stability and sustainable development in the subregion;
	2.	Reaffirms the importance of disarmament, demobilization and reintegration programmes, and encourages the United Nations Peacebuilding Commission to support efforts for the political stabilization and reconstruction of post-conflict countries; 
	3.	Notes with satisfaction the revitalization of the work of the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa following the decision of the twenty-fourth ministerial meeting of the Standing Advisory Committee, held at Kigali from 25 to 29 September 2006; 
	4.	Welcomes the adoption by the twenty-fifth ministerial meeting of the Standing Advisory Committee, held at Sao Tome from 14 to 18 May 2007, of the "Sao Tome Initiative", which provides for the drafting of a legal instrument on the control of small arms and light weapons in Central Africa and of a code of conduct for defence and security forces in Central Africa, and encourages interested countries to provide their financial support for the development of these two projects; 
	5.	Also welcomes the holding at Yaoundé, from 4 to 6 September 2007, of a special conference of the Standing Advisory Committee on cross-border security issues in Central Africa, and takes note of its recommendations, particularly the recommendation relating to the project for the establishment of an international school in Cameroon to train African gendarmes and police in peacekeeping operations;
	6.	Encourages the States members of the Economic Community of Central African States to continue their efforts to promote peace and security in their subregion; 
	7.	Requests the Secretary-General, pursuant to Security Council resolution 1197 (1998), to provide the States members of the Standing Advisory Committee with the necessary support for the smooth functioning of the Council for Peace and Security in Central Africa;
	8.	Encourages the States members of the Economic Community of Central African States to pursue their efforts to render the early-warning mechanism for Central Africa fully operational as an instrument for analysing and monitoring the political situation in the subregion within the framework of the prevention of crises and armed conflicts, and requests the Secretary-General to provide the necessary assistance for its smooth functioning;
	9.	Reaffirms its support for the programme of work of the Standing Advisory Committee, adopted at the organizational meeting of the Committee, held in Yaoundé from 27 to 31 July 1992;
	10.	Notes with satisfaction the progress made by the Standing Advisory Committee in implementing its programme of work for the period 2006-2007;5 
	11.	Emphasizes the importance of providing the States members of the Standing Advisory Committee with the essential support they need to carry out the full programme of activities which they adopted at their ministerial meetings;
	12.	Appeals to the international community to support the efforts undertaken by the States concerned to implement disarmament, demobilization and reintegration programmes;
	13.	Requests the Secretary-General and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to continue their assistance to the countries of Central Africa in tackling the problems of refugees and displaced persons in their territories;
	14.	Requests the Secretary-General and the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to continue to provide their full assistance for the proper functioning of the Subregional Centre for Human Rights and Democracy in Central Africa; 
	15.	Urges Member States and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to support the activities of the Standing Advisory Committee effectively through voluntary contributions to the Trust Fund for the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa;
	16.	Encourages the States members of the Standing Advisory Committee to implement resolution 1540 (2004), adopted by the Security Council on 28 April 2004, which deals with combating the use of and trafficking in nuclear, biological or chemical weapons and their means of delivery by non-State actors;
	17.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue to provide assistance to the States members of the Standing Advisory Committee to ensure the continuation of their efforts;
	18.	Calls upon the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its sixty-third session a report on the implementation of the present resolution;
	19.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-third session the item entitled "Regional confidence-building measures: activities of the United Nations Standing Advisory Committee on Security Questions in Central Africa".

61st plenary meeting
5 December 2007
1 A/50/474, annex I.
2 A/53/258-S/1998/763, annex II, appendix I.
3 A/53/868-S/1999/303, annex II.
4 A/52/871-S/1998/318.
5 A/62/129.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0746695E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/62/53<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/62/53General AssemblyDistr.: General
15 January 2008Sixty-second session
Agenda item 99 (e)

07-46695

A/RES/62/53

A/RES/62/53

2

3

