[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/57/553)]
57/192.  International Decade of the World's Indigenous People


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 56/140 of 19 December 2001 and previous resolutions on the International Decade of the World's Indigenous People,
	Recalling also its resolution 40/131 of 13 December 1985, by which it established the United Nations Voluntary Fund for Indigenous Populations,
	Recalling further that the goal of the Decade is to strengthen international cooperation for the solution of problems faced by indigenous people in such areas as human rights, the environment, development, education and health, and that the theme of the Decade is "Indigenous people: partnership in action",
	Welcoming, in this respect, the contributions made through the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, held in Durban, South Africa, from 31 August to 8 September 2001, to the realization of the goals of the Decade,
	Welcoming also, in this respect, the concluding documents of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, held in Johannesburg, South Africa, from 26 August to 4 September 2002,1
	Saluting the successful holding of the historic first annual session of the Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues at United Nations Headquarters in New York from 13 to 24 May 2002,
	Welcoming the report of the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on the situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms of indigenous people,2 submitted to the Commission at its fifty-eighth session, pursuant to Commission resolution 2001/57 of 24 April 2001,3
	Recognizing the importance of consultation and cooperation with indigenous people in planning and implementing the programme of activities for the International Decade of the World's Indigenous People,4 the need for adequate financial support from the international community, including support from within the United Nations system, and the need for adequate coordination and communication channels,
	Urging all parties to continue to use their best efforts to achieve the goals of the Decade,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the programme of activities for the International Decade of the World's Indigenous People;5 
	2.	Affirms its conviction of the value and diversity of the cultures and forms of social organization of indigenous people and its conviction that the development of indigenous people within their countries will contribute to the socio-economic, cultural and environmental advancement of all the countries of the world;
	3.	Emphasizes the importance of strengthening the human and institutional capacity of indigenous people to develop their own solutions to their problems;
	4.	Requests the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, as coordinator for the Decade:
	(a)	To continue to promote the objectives of the Decade, taking into account, in the fulfilment of his functions, the special concerns of indigenous people;
	(b)	To give due regard to the dissemination, from within existing resources and voluntary contributions, of information on the situation, cultures, languages, rights and aspirations of indigenous people and, in that context, to consider the possibility of organizing projects, special events, exhibitions and other activities addressed to the public, in particular to young people;
	(c)	To submit, through the Secretary-General, an annual report to the General Assembly on the implementation of the programme of activities for the Decade;
	5.	Reaffirms the adoption of a declaration on the rights of indigenous people as a major objective of the Decade, and underlines the importance of effective participation by indigenous representatives in the open-ended intersessional working group of the Commission on Human Rights charged with developing a draft declaration on the rights of indigenous people, established pursuant to Commission resolution 1995/32 of 3 March 1995;6 
	6.	Welcomes Economic and Social Council resolution 2002/28 of 25 July 2002 concerning the Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues;
	7.	Encourages Governments to support the Decade by:
	(a)	Preparing relevant programmes, plans and reports in relation to the Decade, in consultation with indigenous people;
	(b)	Seeking means, in consultation with indigenous people, of giving indigenous people greater responsibility for their own affairs and an effective voice in decisions on matters that affect them;
	(c)	Establishing national committees or other mechanisms involving indigenous people to ensure that the objectives and activities of the Decade are planned and implemented on the basis of full partnership with indigenous people;
	(d)	Contributing to the United Nations Trust Fund for the International Decade of the World's Indigenous People;
	(e)	Contributing, together with other donors, to the United Nations Voluntary Fund for Indigenous Populations in order to assist indigenous representatives in participating in the Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues, the Working Group on Indigenous Populations of the Subcommission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights and the open-ended intersessional working group of the Commission on Human Rights charged with elaborating a draft declaration on the rights of indigenous people;
	(f)	Considering contributing, as appropriate, to the Fund for the Development of Indigenous Peoples in Latin America and the Caribbean, in support of the goals of the Decade;
	(g)	Identifying resources for activities designed to implement the goals of the Decade, in cooperation with indigenous people and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations;
	8.	Invites United Nations financial and development institutions, operational programmes and the specialized agencies and secretariats, as well as other regional and international organizations, in accordance with the existing procedures of their governing bodies:
	(a)	To give increased priority and resources to improving the conditions of indigenous people, with particular emphasis on the needs of those people in developing countries, inter alia, through the preparation of specific programmes of action for the implementation of the goals of the Decade, within their areas of competence;
	(b)	To launch special projects, through appropriate channels and in cooperation with indigenous people, to strengthen their community-level initiatives and to facilitate the exchange of information and expertise among indigenous people and other relevant experts;
	(c)	To designate focal points for the coordination of activities related to the Decade with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights;
and commends those institutions, programmes, agencies and regional and international organizations that have already done so;
	9.	Appeals to all Governments and organizations to consider contributing to the United Nations Voluntary Fund for Indigenous Populations, if possible with a substantial increase in the level of contributions;
	10.	Recommends that the Secretary-General ensure coordinated follow-up to the recommendations concerning indigenous people of all relevant United Nations conferences;
	11.	Requests the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to submit, through the Secretary-General, a report on the implementation of the programme of activities for the Decade to the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session;
	12.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session the item entitled "Programme of activities of the International Decade of the World's Indigenous People".

77th plenary meeting
18 December 2002
1 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa,
26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolutions 1 and 2.
2 E/CN.4/2002/97 and Add.1.
3 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2001, Supplement No. 3 (E/2001/23), chap. II, sect. A.
4 Resolution 50/157, annex.
5 A/57/395.
6 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1995, Supplement No. 3 and corrigenda (E/1995/23 and Corr.1 and 2), chap. II, sect. A.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0255094E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/57/192<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

2
    

3

United NationsA/RES/57/192General AssemblyDistr.: General
12 February 2003Fifty-seventh session
Agenda item 106

02 55094

A/RES/57/192

A/RES/57/192

2

3

