[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/57/550)]
57/182.	Follow-up to the Fourth World Conference on Women and full implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 50/203 of 22 December 1995, 51/69 of 12 December 1996, 52/100 of 12 December 1997, 53/120 of 9 December 1998, 54/141 of 17 December 1999, 55/71 of 4 December 2000 and 56/132 of 19 December 2001, 
	Recalling also the outcome of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly, entitled "Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the twenty-first century",1 and the proposed actions and initiatives to overcome obstacles and challenges thereto,
	Deeply convinced that the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action2 and the outcome of the twenty-third special session are important contributions to the advancement of women worldwide in the achievement of gender equality and must be translated into effective action by all States, the United Nations system and other organizations concerned, as well as by non-governmental organizations, 
	Stressing the importance of strong, sustained political will and commitment at the national, regional and international levels for achieving full and accelerated implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session, 
	Recognizing that the responsibility for the implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session rests primarily at the national level and that strengthened efforts are necessary in this respect, and reiterating that enhanced international cooperation is essential for the effective implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session,
	Welcoming the increased attention to the situation of women and girls and the integration of a gender perspective in the work of the United Nations, in particular in the outcomes of major conferences, special sessions and summit conferences and their follow-up processes, and reaffirming its commitment to building on progress achieved in this respect, 
	Welcoming also the attention given to the situation of women and girls and the integration of a gender perspective in the outcomes of the International Conference on Financing for Development, held in Monterrey, Mexico, from 18 to 22 March 2002,3 the Second World Assembly on Ageing, held in Madrid from 8 to 12 April 2002,4 the twenty-seventh special session of the General Assembly, held in New York from 8 to 10 May 2002,5 and the World Summit on Sustainable Development, held in Johannesburg, South Africa, from 26 August to 4 September 2002,6
	Emphasizing the importance of the decision taken by the Economic and Social Council, in its resolution 2001/41 of 26 July 2001, to devote the coordination segment of one of its substantive sessions, before 2005, to the review and appraisal of the system-wide implementation of agreed conclusions 1997/2 on mainstreaming the gender perspective into all policies and programmes in the United Nations system, adopted by the Council on 18 July 1997,7 
	Noting with concern that the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the Protocols thereto8 have not yet entered into force, 
	Reaffirming the primary and essential role of the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council in promoting the advancement of women and gender equality, while noting the open debate on peacekeeping and gender held in the Security Council on 25 July 2002,9
	1.	Reaffirms the goals, objectives and commitments contained in the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action2 and also in the political declaration and further actions and initiatives to implement the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action adopted by the General Assembly at its twenty-third special session;1
	2.	Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General on the follow-up to and progress made in the implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly;10 
	3.	Calls upon Governments, the relevant entities of the United Nations system, within their respective mandates, and all relevant actors of civil society, including non-governmental organizations, to continue to take effective action to achieve full and effective implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session, as elaborated in the above-mentioned documents;
	4.	Strongly encourages Governments to continue to support the role and contribution of civil society, in particular non-governmental organizations and women's organizations, in the implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session;
	5.	Calls upon Governments and all other relevant actors to continue to integrate a gender perspective in the implementation of and follow-up to recent United Nations conferences, summits and special sessions and in future reports on this subject; 
	6.	Requests the Secretary-General to include in his annual and quinquennial reports on the follow-up to the United Nations Millennium Declaration11 an assessment of the progress made in promoting the goal of gender equality, in particular in relation to the development goals set forth in the Millennium Declaration, and recommendations to improve the measurement and coverage of indicators so that progress towards gender equality can be evaluated over time;
	7.	Welcomes the convening of the World Summit on the Information Society, to be held in Geneva in 2003 and in Tunis in 2005, and encourages Governments and all other stakeholders to integrate a gender perspective in the preparatory processes and outcome documents; 
	8.	Reaffirms its decision that the General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council and the Commission on the Status of Women, in accordance with their respective mandates and with General Assembly resolution 48/162 of 20 December 1993 and other relevant resolutions, constitute a three-tiered intergovernmental mechanism that plays the primary role in overall policy-making and follow-up and in coordinating the implementation and monitoring of the Beijing Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session; 
	9.	Also reaffirms that the follow-up to the Fourth World Conference on Women and the twenty-third special session will be undertaken within the framework of an integrated and coordinated follow-up to major international conferences and summits in the economic, social and related fields; 
	10.	Invites the Economic and Social Council to continue its efforts to ensure that gender mainstreaming is an integral part of all activities in its work and that of its subsidiary bodies, building upon agreed conclusions 1997/2 adopted by the Council on 18 July 1997,7 and in this regard welcomes the inclusion of the issue of gender mainstreaming in its agenda, the consideration of annual progress made in gender mainstreaming and the attention given to gender perspective in the outcomes of the 2002 substantive session of the Council;
	11.	Encourages the Council to request the regional commissions, within their respective mandates and resources, to intensify efforts to build up a database, to be updated regularly, in which all programmes and projects carried out in their respective regions by organizations or bodies of the United Nations system are listed, and to facilitate the dissemination of information on such programmes and projects, as well as the evaluation of their impact on the empowerment of women through the implementation of the Beijing Platform for Action; 
	12.	Welcomes the contribution of the Commission on the Status of Women in the follow-up and review of the future implementation of the commitments made in the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session, reaffirms that the Commission will continue to play a central role in this regard, and encourages Governments, the relevant specialized agencies, funds and programmes of the United Nations system and civil society to continue to support its work; 
	13.	Recognizes the importance attached to the regional and subregional monitoring of the global and regional platforms for action and of the implementation of the outcome of the twenty-third special session by regional commissions and other regional or subregional structures, within their mandates, in consultation with Governments, and calls for the promotion of further cooperation in that respect among Governments and, where appropriate, national machineries of the same region; 
	14.	Also recognizes that sustained political will and commitment at the national, regional and international levels are essential elements for the full and accelerated implementation of the Beijing Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session; 
	15.	Further recognizes that adequate mobilization of resources at the national and international levels, as well as new and additional resources for the developing countries, including the least developed countries and countries with economies in transition, from all available funding mechanisms, including multilateral, bilateral and private sources, will also be required; 
	16.	Acknowledges that the creation of an enabling environment at the national and international levels, including through the full participation of women at all levels of decision-making, is necessary to ensure the full participation of women in economic activities, and calls upon States to remove obstacles to the full implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session; 
	17.	Reaffirms that, in order to ensure the effective implementation of the strategic objectives of the Beijing Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session, the United Nations system should promote an active and visible policy of mainstreaming a gender perspective, including through the work of the Division for the Advancement of Women and of the Office of the Special Adviser on Gender Issues and Advancement of Women and the maintenance of gender units and focal points; 
	18.	Also reaffirms that United Nations bodies that focus on gender issues, such as the United Nations Population Fund, the United Nations Development Fund for Women, the International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women and the United Nations Children's Fund, have a critical role to play in the implementation of the objectives of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session, and recognizes that gender specialists throughout the United Nations system also have an important role to play in this regard; 
	19.	Expresses its appreciation for the efforts made by all relevant organizations of the United Nations system in promoting the role of women in conflict prevention and resolution; 
	20.	Recognizes the important role of women in the prevention and resolution of conflicts and in peace-building, the importance of their equal participation and full involvement in all efforts for the maintenance and promotion of peace and security and the need to increase their role in decision-making with regard to conflict prevention and resolution, and urges the United Nations system and Governments to make further efforts in this regard and to take steps to ensure and support the full participation of women at all levels of decision-making and implementation in development activities and peace processes, including conflict prevention and resolution, post-conflict reconstruction, peacemaking, peacekeeping and peace-building, as well as through the integration of a gender perspective into those United Nations processes; 
	21.	Requests the Secretary-General to ensure that all United Nations personnel and officials at Headquarters and in the field, especially in field operations, receive training so that they mainstream a gender perspective in their work, including gender impact analysis, and to ensure appropriate follow-up to such training; 
	22.	Requests all bodies that deal with programme and budgetary matters, including the Committee for Programme and Coordination, to ensure that all programmes, medium-term plans and programme budgets visibly mainstream a gender perspective; 
	23.	Invites States parties to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women12 to include information on measures taken to implement the outcome of the twenty-third special session, as well as the Beijing Platform for Action, in their reports to the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women under article 18 of the Convention; 
	24.	Welcomes the entry into force of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,13 and urges States parties to the Convention that have not yet done so to consider signing, ratifying or acceding to the Optional Protocol; 
	25.	Urges Member States to consider signing, ratifying or acceding to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the Protocols thereto,8 in particular the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children;
	26.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue to disseminate the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session as widely as possible in all the official languages of the United Nations; 
	27.	Also requests the Secretary-General to integrate a gender perspective in his reporting to the General Assembly, in order to support gender-sensitive policy formulation; 
	28.	Further requests the Secretary-General to report annually to the General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council and the Commission on the Status of Women on follow-up to and progress in the implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session with an assessment of progress made in mainstreaming a gender perspective within the United Nations system, including by providing information on key achievements, lessons learned and best practices, and to recommend further measures and strategies for future action within the United Nations system; 
	29.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session the item entitled "Implementation of the outcome of the Fourth World Conference on Women and of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly, entitled 'Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the twenty-first century' ".

77th plenary meeting
18 December 2002
1 Resolution S-23/2, annex, and resolution S-23/3, annex.
2 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.
3 Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico, 18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
4 Report of the Second World Assembly on Ageing, Madrid, 8-12 April 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.IV.4), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.
5 Resolution S-27/2, annex.
6 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa,
26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolutions 1 and 2.
7 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-second Session, Supplement No. 3 (A/52/3/Rev.1), chap. IV, para. 4.
8 Resolution 55/25, annexes I-III, and resolution 55/255, annex.
9 See S/PV.4589 and Corr.1 and S/PV.4589 (Resumption 1).
10 A/57/286.
11 See resolution 55/2.
12 Resolution 34/180, annex.
13 Resolution 54/4, annex.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0255033E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/57/182<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

2
    

3

United NationsA/RES/57/182General AssemblyDistr.: General
4 February 2003Fifty-seventh session
Agenda item 103

02 55033

A/RES/57/182

A/RES/57/182

6

5

