[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 18 December 2014
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/69/485)]
69/159.	Rights of indigenous peoples


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling all relevant resolutions of the General Assembly, the Human Rights Council and the Economic and Social Council relating to the rights of indigenous peoples, reaffirming its resolutions 65/198 of 21 December 2010, 66/142 of 19 December 2011, 67/153 of 20 December 2012, 68/149 of 18 December 2013 and 69/2 of 22 September 2014, and recalling also Human Rights Council resolution 27/13 of 25 September 2014,
	Welcoming the outcome document of the high-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly known as the World Conference on Indigenous Peoples, held in New York on 22 and 23 September 2014,1 in which Heads of State and Government, ministers and representatives of Member States reiterated the important and continuing role of the United Nations in promoting and protecting the rights of indigenous peoples and welcomed the inclusive preparatory process for the high-level plenary meeting, including the comprehensive engagement of the representatives of indigenous peoples,
	Reaffirming the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples,2 which addresses their individual and collective rights,
	Stressing the importance of promoting and pursuing the objectives of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples also through international cooperation to support national and regional efforts to achieve the ends of the Declaration, including the right to maintain and strengthen the distinct political, legal, economic, social and cultural institutions of indigenous peoples and the right to participate fully, if they so choose, in the political, economic, social and cultural life of the State,
	Recalling the United Nations Millennium Declaration,3 the 2005 World Summit Outcome,4 the outcome document of the high-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly on the Millennium Development Goals5 and the outcome document of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, from 20 to 22 June 2012, entitled "The future we want",6
	Recognizing the twenty-fifth anniversary of the adoption of the Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention, 1989 (No. 169) of the International Labour Organization,7
	Taking note of the outcome documents of the recent regional review conferences on population and development, including the Regional Conference on Population and Development in Latin America and the Caribbean, which included "Indigenous peoples: interculturalism and rights",
	Recognizing the value and the diversity of the cultures and the form of social organization of indigenous peoples and their holistic traditional scientific knowledge of their lands, natural resources and environment,
	Recognizing also the importance of traditional sustainable agricultural practices, including traditional seed supply systems, as well as access to credit and other financial services, markets, secure land tenure, health care, social services, education, training, knowledge and appropriate and affordable technologies, including efficient irrigation, the reuse of treated wastewater and water harvesting and storage for indigenous peoples and others living in rural areas,
	Welcoming the achievements made during the Second International Decade of the World's Indigenous People, and recognizing that challenges remain in finding solutions to the problems faced by indigenous peoples in such areas as traditional knowledge, science, culture, education, health, human rights, the environment and social and economic development, 
	Concerned about the extreme disadvantages that indigenous peoples have typically faced across a range of social and economic indicators and about the impediments to their full enjoyment of their rights,
	Stressing the need to pay particular attention to the rights and special needs of indigenous women, children, youth, older persons and persons with disabilities, as set out in the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, including in the process of protecting and promoting their access to justice,
	Recognizing the forthcoming thirtieth anniversary of the United Nations Voluntary Fund for Indigenous Peoples, in 2015,
	1.	Notes the work of the Expert Mechanism on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, of the Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues and of the Special Rapporteur of the Human Rights Council on the rights of indigenous peoples, takes note of her report,8 and encourages all Governments to respond favourably to her requests for visits;
	2.	Welcomes the outcome document of the high-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly known as the World Conference on Indigenous Peoples,1 and urges Governments and the United Nations system, in consultation and cooperation with indigenous peoples through their representatives and institutions, to implement, when necessary, appropriate measures, concrete policies, plans, programmes, projects and other measures to realize the commitments made in the outcome document, and invites international and regional organizations, within their respective mandates, national human rights institutions, where they exist, civil society, including non-governmental organizations, and other relevant actors to contribute to those efforts;
	3.	Reiterates the commitment of Member States to cooperate with indigenous peoples, through their own representative institutions, to develop and implement national action plans, strategies or other measures, where relevant, to achieve the ends of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples;2 
	4.	Takes note with appreciation of the final report of the Secretary-General on the achievement of the goal and objectives of the Second International Decade of the World's Indigenous People,9 one of the major highlights of which was the adoption, in 2007, of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, but regrets that gaps remain between the formal recognition of indigenous peoples' rights and the implementation of policies on the ground;
	5.	Decides to convene a high-level event to mark the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, to be held during the seventy-first session of the General Assembly, in 2017, and that the event will take stock of the achievements of the preceding 10 years and assess the remaining challenges for the rights of indigenous peoples, and also consider the further follow-up to the Declaration,  including the consideration of a third International Decade;
	6.	Welcomes the designation by the Secretary-General of the Under-Secretary-General for Economic and Social Affairs as the senior official of the United Nations system responsible for coordinating follow-up action to the World Conference on Indigenous Peoples, in order, in consultation and cooperation with indigenous peoples, the Inter-Agency Support Group on Indigenous Peoples' Issues and Member States, to begin development, within existing resources, of a system-wide action plan to ensure a coherent approach to achieving the ends of the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, raising awareness of the rights of indigenous peoples and increasing the coherence of the activities of the system in this regard;
	7.	Encourages those States that have not yet ratified or acceded to the Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention, 1989 (No. 169) of the International Labour Organization7 to consider doing so and to consider supporting the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, and welcomes the increased support of States for the Declaration;
	8.	Urges Governments and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to continue to contribute to the United Nations Voluntary Fund for Indigenous Peoples, the Trust Fund on Indigenous Issues and the United Nations Indigenous Peoples' Partnership, and invites indigenous organizations and private institutions and individuals to do likewise;
	9.	Decides to continue observing in New York, Geneva and other United Nations offices every year on 9 August the International Day of Indigenous Peoples, to request the Secretary-General to support the observance of the day from within existing resources and to encourage Governments to observe the day at the national level;
	10.	Encourages States to consider including in their reports related to indigenous peoples and women information on the progress made and challenges in the implementation of Commission on the Status of Women resolutions 49/7 of 11 March 2005, entitled "Indigenous women: beyond the ten-year review of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action",10 and 56/4 of 9 March 2012, entitled "Indigenous women: key actors in poverty and hunger eradication";11
	11.	Also encourages States, in consultation and cooperation with indigenous peoples, to take the appropriate measures at the national level, including legislative, policy and administrative measures, to achieve the ends of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, and to promote awareness of it among all sectors of society, including members of legislative, judicial and civil service bodies;
	12.	Underlines the need to intensify efforts, in cooperation with indigenous peoples, to prevent and eliminate all forms of violence and discrimination against indigenous women, children, youth, older persons and persons with disabilities and to support measures that will ensure their empowerment and full and effective participation in decision-making processes at all levels and in all areas and eliminate barriers to their full, equal and effective participation in political, economic, social and cultural life;
	13.	Stresses the need to strengthen the commitment of States and the entities of the United Nations system to mainstream the promotion and protection of the rights of indigenous peoples into development agendas at the national, regional and international levels, and encourages giving due consideration to the rights of indigenous peoples in the ongoing discussion of the post-2015 development agenda;
	14.	Encourages States and entities of the United Nations system to strengthen international cooperation, including to address the disadvantages faced by indigenous peoples, and to increase technical cooperation and financial assistance in this regard;
	15.	Reaffirms its decision in the outcome document of the high-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly known as the World Conference on Indigenous Peoples to continue at its seventieth session the consideration of ways to enable the participation of indigenous peoples' representatives and organizations in meetings of relevant United Nations bodies on issues affecting them, including any specific proposals made by the Secretary-General in this regard;
	16.	Welcomes the report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on the status of the United Nations Voluntary Fund for Indigenous Peoples12 and requests the High Commissioner to submit a report to the General Assembly at its seventy-first session;
	17.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its seventieth session, under the item entitled "Rights of indigenous peoples", a sub-item entitled 
"Follow-up to the outcome document of the high-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly known as the World Conference on Indigenous Peoples".

73rd plenary meeting
18 December 2014

1 Resolution 69/2.
2 Resolution 61/295, annex.
3 Resolution 55/2.
4 Resolution 60/1.
5 Resolution 65/1.
6 Resolution 66/288, annex.
7 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1650, No. 28383.
8 A/69/267.
9 A/69/271.
10 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2005, Supplement No. 7 and corrigendum (E/2005/27 and Corr.1), chap. I, sect. D.
11 Ibid., 2012, Supplement No. 7 and corrigendum (E/2012/27 and Corr.1), chap. I, sect. D.
12 A/69/278.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1470616E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/69/159<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------





3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/69/159General AssemblyDistr.: General
3 February 2015Sixty-ninth session
Agenda item 65 (a)

14-67607 (E)
*1467607*Please recycle 

A/RES/69/159Rights of indigenous peoples

Rights of indigenous peoplesA/RES/69/159

4/5

5/5

