[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 29 June 2007
[without reference to a Main Committee (A/61/L.63)]

61/272.	Commemorative high-level plenary meeting devoted to the follow-up to the outcome of the special session on children


	The General Assembly,
	Reaffirming the Declaration and the Plan of Action contained in the final document of the special session of the General Assembly on children, entitled "A world fit for children",1 and recognizing that their implementation is a major contribution to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals and to protecting the rights and promoting the well-being of children,
	Recalling the provisions of the 2005 World Summit Outcome,2 which reflect the commitment of Member States to protect the rights and interests of children,
	Acknowledging that the Convention on the Rights of the Child,3 the most universally embraced human rights treaty in history, and the Optional Protocols thereto,4 contain a comprehensive set of international legal standards for the protection and well-being of children,
	Recalling its resolution 58/282 of 9 February 2004 devoted to the follow-up to the outcome of the special session on children,
	Recalling also its resolution 57/270 B of 23 June 2003 on the integrated and coordinated implementation of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and summits in the economic, social and related fields,
	Bearing in mind that, by 2007, several of the time-bound and quantified commitments set out in the Declaration and the Plan of Action should have been met and that other targets are to be met by 2010 and 2015,
	1.	Decides to convene a commemorative high-level plenary meeting to evaluate progress made in the implementation of the Declaration and the Plan of Action contained in the document entitled "A world fit for children"1 on 11 and 12 December 2007;
	2.	Encourages all Member States and observers to be represented and to address the commemorative high-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly at the highest possible level;
	3.	Decides that the commemorative high-level plenary meeting will comprise plenary meetings and two thematic interactive round tables;
	4.	Also decides that the President of the General Assembly, the President of the Economic and Social Council, the Secretary-General and the Executive Director of the United Nations Children's Fund will address the commemorative high-level plenary meeting at its opening plenary meeting;
	5.	Invites intergovernmental organizations and entities that have observer status in the General Assembly, relevant entities of the United Nations system and non-governmental organizations in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council, as well as those accredited to or in a collaborative relationship or partnership with the United Nations Children's Fund, to participate in the commemorative high-level plenary meeting; 
	6.	Decides that a girl and a boy, selected through a process led by the President of the General Assembly and organized by the United Nations Children's Fund, and a representative of a non-governmental organization in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council will address the commemorative high-level plenary meeting at its closing plenary meeting;
	7.	Requests the President of the General Assembly, following consultations to be held with all Member States no later than 30 September 2007, with due regard to gender balance and equitable geographical representation, to draw up and circulate a list of three speakers for the closing plenary meeting in accordance with paragraph 6 above and a list of twenty children and twenty representatives of non-governmental organizations in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council, as well as those accredited to or in a collaborative relationship or partnership with the United Nations Children's Fund, who will participate in the two round tables on the understanding that ten children and ten representatives of non-governmental organizations will participate in each of the round tables and that non-governmental organizations in a collaborative relationship or partnership with the United Nations Children's Fund will be considered on a no-objection basis for a final decision by the General Assembly;
	8.	Also requests the President of the General Assembly, following consultations with all Member States and with support from the United Nations Children's Fund, to finalize organizational arrangements for the commemorative high-level plenary meeting, including the assignment of participants and the identification of themes and chairpersons for the two interactive round tables;
	9.	Encourages Member States and observers to include children and young people in their delegations participating in the commemorative high-level plenary meeting;
	10.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit a comprehensive analytical report on progress achieved and challenges remaining in implementing the commitments set out in the Declaration and the Plan of Action at least six weeks prior to its consideration by the General Assembly at its sixty-second session;
	11.	Decides that the chairpersons of the interactive round tables will present summaries of the discussions at the closing plenary meeting;
	12. 	Requests the President of the General Assembly to hold open consultations with Member States, the Observer State and observers in order to prepare, as an outcome document to be adopted at the commemorative high-level plenary meeting, a brief declaration reaffirming the commitments to the full implementation of the Declaration and the Plan of Action contained in the document entitled "A world fit for children";
	13. 	Decides that the arrangements for the commemorative high-level plenary meeting will in no way create a precedent for other similar events of the General Assembly.
104th plenary meeting
29 June 2007
1 Resolution S-27/2, annex.
2 See resolution 60/1.
3 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1577, No. 27531.
4 Ibid., vol. 2171, No. 27531; and ibid., vol. 2173, No. 27531.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0651069E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/61/272<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/61/272General AssemblyDistr.: General
10 July 2007Sixty-first session
Agenda item 63 (b)

06-51069

A/RES/61/272

A/RES/61/272

2

3

