UNITED						A
NATIONS




			General Assembly



									Distr.
									GENERAL

									A/RES/49/135
									17 February 1995






Forty-ninth session
Agenda item 12


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Second Committee (A/49/726)]


49/135.Preventive action and intensification of the struggle against malaria in developing countries, particularly in Africa

	The General Assembly,

	Reaffirming the agreed conclusions of the coordination segment of the substantive session of 1993 of the Economic and Social Council on the coordination of the policies and activities of the specialized agencies and other bodies of the United Nations system in the fields of preventive action and intensification of the struggle against malaria and diarrhoeal diseases, in particular cholera, 1/

	Recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 1994/34 of 29 July 1994, including preventive action and intensification of the struggle against malaria in developing countries, particularly in Africa,

	Acknowledging the importance for endemically affected countries of having a modern strategy to control this most deadly of all tropical diseases, which annually causes more than one million deaths world wide and nine hundred thousand deaths in Africa,

	Deeply concerned by the development of more than three hundred million new cases of malaria annually and by the emergence of a new type of drug-resistant malaria,

	Noting with concern that a major problem complicating malaria treatment and thereby contributing to malaria-related mortality is the continuous intensification and spread of parasite resistance to anti-malarial drugs,

	Noting with regret that chloroquine, which traditionally has been prescribed both for prophylaxis and for curative purposes, can no longer be totally relied upon,

	Recognizing that malaria-related deaths in the world could be prevented  if appropriate health services were made available in endemically affected countries,

	1.	Endorses the new Global Malaria Control Strategy of the World Health Organization, 2/ endorsed in 1992 by the Ministerial Conference on Malaria, held at Amsterdam, which aims to prevent mortality and reduce morbidity as well as social and economic losses due to malaria;

	2.	Recognizes that, where the disease is most prevalent, malaria-related problems vary enormously from situation to situation owing to epidemiological, social, economic and operational factors;

	3.	Stresses that to achieve the objectives of the Strategy will require the progressive improvement and strengthening of local, national, regional and international capabilities, especially with the aim of enhancing partnership and coordination efforts, involving sectors like education, agriculture and the environment, as well as integrating activities with those on related diseases;

	4.	Notes with appreciation the continued efforts undertaken by Governments to control the disease, in spite of their meagre resources, including the actions they have taken to stop its outbreak through the widespread spraying of insecticide and by making available appropriate anti-malarial products;

	5.	Welcomes the fact that the World Health Organization has recently increased its commitment to malaria control, especially in Africa, where the overwhelming majority both of cases and of deaths occur;

	6.	Also welcomes the fact that Dr. Manuel Elkin Patarroyo of Colombia generously offered in June 1993 to donate the full licence rights of his vaccine SPF-66 to the World Health Organization;

	7.	Notes that there is still a great need to increase resources despite a concerted international effort launched by the World Health Organization and other relevant regional and international bodies to mobilize the necessary resources to control malaria world wide;

	8.	Calls for continued support, in particular for the United Nations Development Programme/World Bank/World Health Organization special programme for research and training in tropical diseases and to the Division of Control of Tropical Diseases of the World Health Organization;


	9.	Appeals to the international community, international organizations, multilateral financial institutions, specialized agencies, organs and programmes of the United Nations system and non-governmental organizations as well as all interested groups to provide developing countries, in particular African countries, with technical, medical and financial assistance commensurate with the efforts needed to control this endemic disease;

	10.	Invites the Director-General of the World Health Organization, as the lead agency in this field, to promote the mobilization of organizations, agencies, organs and programmes of the United Nations system in order to provide technical, medical and financial assistance for preventive action and intensification of the struggle against malaria, and to elaborate a plan of action detailing the coordination of all related activities in this field;

	11.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its fiftieth session the report of the Director-General of the World Health Organization, to be prepared in collaboration with other relevant organizations, agencies, organs and programmes of the United Nations system, on the implementation of the present resolution, including, inter alia, answers to the many questions that still need to be addressed, as well as the utilization of an effective malaria vaccine in an integrated approach, together with other malaria-control tools, including the incorporation of appropriate technologies for malaria control, with specific attention to the results of scientific investigations concerning the latest developments in this field.

	92nd plenary meeting
	19 December 1994


     1/	Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 3 (A/48/3/Rev.1), chap. III, sect. B.
     2/   World Health Organization, A Global Strategy for Malaria Control  (Geneva, 1993).
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------



 

 


95-76837


95-76837


	/...


	/...

A/RES/49/135
Page 1



	A/RES/49/135
	Page 1




	/...


	/...

A/RES/49/135
Page 2



	A/RES/49/135
	Page 2







