[Start1]

Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 21 November 2016

[without reference to a Main Committee (A/71/L.9 and Add.1)]
71/13.	Cooperation between the United Nations and the Central European Initiative 


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 66/111 of 9 December 2011, by which it granted observer status to the Central European Initiative,
	Recalling also its resolutions 67/7 of 19 November 2012 and 69/8 of 11 November 2014, in which it invited the specialized agencies and other organizations and programmes of the United Nations system to cooperate with the Initiative in order to continue joint activities for the achievement of common objectives,
	Recalling further the Articles of the Charter of the United Nations that encourage activities through regional cooperation to promote the goals and objectives of the United Nations,
	Appreciating the active involvement of the Initiative in establishing cooperation with the United Nations system and relevant international and regional organizations, aimed at the furthering of political and socioeconomic development by covering all its relevant dimensions,
	Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General submitted pursuant to resolution 69/8,1 
	1.	Notes the continuing efficiency of the Central European Initiative as a promoter of political dialogue, thus supporting the stability, security and economic growth of its member States in a project-oriented way;
	2.	Values, in particular, the great adaptability of the Initiative to political changes and its immediate response to urgent issues through providing assistance to affected countries in the region and connecting relevant stakeholders;
	3.	Welcomes, in this context, the extraordinary call for proposals on migration and security issues launched by the Initiative in 2015, as well as its network events regarding migration crisis management;
	4.	Also welcomes, in this context, the cooperation established through memorandums of understanding with specialized organizations, such as the Migration, Asylum, Refugees Regional Initiative, based in Skopje, the International Centre for Migration Policy Development, based in Vienna, and the International Organization for Migration, based in Geneva; 
	5.	Notes the vigorous efforts of the Central European Initiative to support, elaborate and realize concrete joint regional projects in strategic areas, often in cooperation with other important regional and international players, in order to increase the financial support for projects in the region;
	6.	Appreciates, in this context, the efforts undertaken by the Initiative in intensifying its cooperation with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe through joining forces for the implementation of three projects addressing relevant issues on gender equality, on the fight against corruption and on reconciliation in the region;
	7.	Acknowledges, also in this context, the fruitful cooperation between the Initiative and the European Union, as one of the main co-funders of the Initiative's projects, and supports the continuous efforts of the Initiative to take concrete steps to establish additional mutually beneficial partnerships with the European Union;
	8.	Also acknowledges the commitment of the Initiative to supporting its non-European Union member States in their integration and modernization processes;
	9.	Welcomes, in this context, the decision of Belarus to take over the Initiative's annual presidency in 2017;
	10.	Also welcomes the continuing financial support by the Central European Initiative Trust Fund at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, financed entirely by Italy, funding mainly technical cooperation projects related to larger operations of the Bank in non-European Union States members of the Initiative, and covering relevant areas including agriculture, transport, energy, assistance to small and medium-sized enterprises, municipal infrastructure and services, banking, insurance, institution-building and capacity-building;
	11.	Appreciates the significant contribution of the Initiative in providing grants for small-scale multilateral projects in priority areas through the Central European Initiative Cooperation Fund, to which all member States contribute, as well as the financial support by the Know-how Exchange Programme, financed by Austria and Italy, providing grants for projects promoting capacity-building and best practices in non-European Union member States;
	12.	Notes the significant contribution of the Initiative in the areas of culture and the media by supporting various events, prizes and other initiatives promoting, in particular, intercultural dialogue and press freedom;
	13.	Also notes the engagement of the Initiative in support of mobility for young officials, students and researchers through specific instruments and programmes; 
	14.	Acknowledges the substantial role of the Parliamentary and Business Dimensions of the Initiative in fostering regional cooperation;
	15.	Appreciates the commitment of the Initiative to intensifying cooperation with the United Nations, the specialized agencies and other organizations and programmes of the United Nations system, in particular mutual participation in events and meetings of common interest, and to developing practical and results-oriented joint projects;
	16.	Values the commitment of the Initiative, which presented its support on the occasion of the United Nations summit for the adoption of the post-2015 development agenda, held in 2015, to contributing to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development,2 in particular through focusing on sustainable development and interconnectivity on a regional level;
	17.	Invites the Secretary-General to intensify the exchange with the Initiative in order to continue the fruitful cooperation and to facilitate coordination between the secretariats;
	18.	Encourages the specialized agencies and other organizations and programmes of the United Nations system to strengthen cooperation with the Initiative through common action aimed at achieving the shared goals;
	19.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its seventy-third session a report on the implementation of the present resolution;
	20.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its seventy-third session, under the item entitled "Cooperation between the United Nations and regional and other organizations", the sub-item entitled "Cooperation between the United Nations and the Central European Initiative".

48th plenary meeting 
21 November 2016 

1 See A/71/160-S/2016/621, sect. II.
2 Resolution 70/1.
[Start1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1639649E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/71/13<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/71/13General AssemblyDistr.: General
5 December 2016Seventy-first session
Agenda item 126 (w)

16-20634 (E)    
*1620634*

A/RES/71/13Cooperation between the United Nations and the Central European Initiative

Cooperation between the United Nations and the Central European InitiativeA/RES/71/13

2/2

3/3

