[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 22 December 2006
[on the report of the Fifth Committee (A/61/659)]
61/244.	Human resources management


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling Articles 8, 97, 100 and 101 of the Charter of the United Nations,
	Recalling also its resolutions 49/222 A and B of 23 December 1994 and
20 July 1995, 51/226 of 3 April 1997, 52/219 of 22 December 1997, 52/252 of
8 September 1998, 53/221 of 7 April 1999, 55/258 of 14 June 2001, 57/305 of
15 April 2003, 58/296 of 18 June 2004, 59/266 of 23 December 2004, 60/1 of
16 September 2005 and 60/260 of 8 May 2006, as well as its other relevant resolutions and decisions,
	Having considered the relevant reports on human resources management questions submitted to the General Assembly for its consideration1 and the related report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions,2
	Reaffirming that the staff of the United Nations is an invaluable asset of the Organization, and commending its contribution to furthering the purposes and principles of the United Nations,
	Paying tribute to the memory of all staff members who have lost their lives in the service of the Organization,

I
Human resources management reform
	1.	Expresses concern over the fact that staff representatives from New York did not participate in the consultation process, stresses the importance of a meaningful dialogue on human resources management issues between staff and management, and calls upon both parties to intensify efforts to overcome differences and to resume the consultative process; 
	2.	Notes the Secretary-General's proposals on the new human resources framework, and emphasizes that it shall be based on clear ethical standards, simplicity, clarity and transparency, recruitment based on the highest standards of efficiency, integrity and professionalism, career development, compliance with geographical distribution and gender balance mandates, accountability of managers and staff, and operational needs at Headquarters and in the field; 
	3.	Emphasizes the importance of the participation of staff representatives in the work of the central review bodies, and reiterates its request to the Secretary-General and its invitation to staff representatives to engage in the consultative process; 
	4.	Notes that minimizing the occurrence of high rates of job turnover in Professional categories in the United Nations is essential to its smooth functioning; 
	5.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to it in the context of the biennial human resources management report on the yearly rate of turnover in Professional categories, classified by grade level, in the United Nations Secretariat and in field missions;

II
Recruitment and staffing
	1.	Reiterates that the Secretary-General has to ensure that the highest standards of efficiency, competence and integrity serve as the paramount consideration in the employment of staff, with due regard to the principle of equitable geographical distribution, in accordance with Article 101, paragraph 3, of the Charter of the United Nations; 
	2.	Also reiterates section V, paragraph 2, of its resolution 53/221, which states that recruitment, appointment and promotion of staff shall be made without distinction as to race, sex or religion, in accordance with the principles of the Charter and the provisions of the Staff Regulations and Rules of the United Nations; 
	3.	Requests the Secretary-General to report on measures being used to verify the application of the highest standards of efficiency, competence and integrity as the paramount consideration in the employment of staff, with due regard to the recruitment of staff on as wide a geographical basis as possible, in accordance with the provisions of Article 101, paragraph 3, of the Charter, and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its sixty-third session; 
	4.	Also requests the Secretary-General to ensure the proper functioning and membership of the central review bodies in order to ensure their effective role in the staff selection system and, to that end, to develop an induction and training programme for the members, and to report to it thereon at the second part of its resumed sixty-first session; 
	5.	Further requests the Secretary-General to undertake a review of the staff selection system with a particular emphasis on enhancing the performance of the United Nations Secretariat, which would include a survey of opinions of managers relating, inter alia, to the possibilities offered by that system to choose the best-qualified candidate for the job and to improve geographical representation and gender balance, and to report thereon to it at its sixty-third session, in the context of his regular human resources report; 
	6.	Reaffirms the provisions of regulation 4.4 of the Staff Regulations and Rules of the United Nations, and decides to retain the criterion of geographical status in the staff selection system as one of the key elements to ensure geographical balance at each level for posts subject to geographical distribution; 
	7.	Recognizes the importance of speeding up the recruitment and staffing process, in accordance with Article 101, paragraph 3, of the Charter, which will ensure that staff are diverse, multi-skilled and versatile; 
	8.	Requests the Secretary-General, in cooperation with Member States, to explore ways to further increase awareness of job opportunities in the United Nations system, including through more extensive outreach, the Department of Public Information of the Secretariat, the United Nations information centres and United Nations country offices, with a view to achieving more balanced geographical and gender representation in the Organization; 
	9.	Recognizes that pre-screened rosters can considerably expedite the recruitment process in the United Nations; 
	10.	Requests the Secretary-General to promote the full utilization of existing rosters for recruitment and to further elaborate the use of pre-screened rosters, based on the organizational needs identified through strategic workforce planning, taking into account the need for transparency, support for the provisions of Article 101 of the Charter and administrative and resource implications, as well as geographical and gender mandates, and to report to it thereon at the second part of its resumed sixty-first session; 
	11.	Notes the intention of the Secretary-General to establish a recruitment and staffing centre to support managers in the selection of staff and to enhance the consistency of recruitment across the Secretariat, and invites the Secretary-General to submit proposals in the context of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2008-2009; 
	12.	Requests the Secretary-General to ensure that use of the envisaged expedited recruitment process is confined to surge needs, with established procedures for recruitment being waived only in exceptional cases, and also requests the Secretary-General to report to it on the use of this mechanism, including the criteria for defining such exceptions, in the context of its consideration of human resources management; 
	13.	Reiterates its request to the Secretary-General to continue his efforts to reduce the period required to fill vacancies by addressing the factors contributing to delays in the process of selection, recruitment and placement and to report to it thereon at the second part of its resumed sixty-first session; 
	14.	Decides to maintain the limitations established by the General Assembly for the assignment of General Service staff to field missions; 
	15.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue in future years the innovation set out in his report on the composition of the Secretariat3 to provide information on all staff under contract with the Secretariat, thus providing a more comprehensive picture of staff by nationality, category and gender; 
	16.	Reaffirms the need to respect the equality of each of the two working languages of the Secretariat, also reaffirms the use of additional working languages in specific duty stations as mandated, and in this regard requests the Secretary-General to ensure that vacancy announcements specify the need for either of the working languages of the Secretariat unless the functions of the post require a specific working language; 
	17.	Acknowledges that the interaction of the United Nations with the local population in the field is essential and that language skills constitute an important element of the selection and training processes, and therefore affirms that good command of the official language(s) spoken in the country of residence should be taken into account as an additional asset during those processes;

III
National competitive examinations
	1.	Reaffirms that national competitive examinations are the source of recruitment for P-2 posts subject to geographical distribution in order to reduce non-representation and underrepresentation of Member States in the Secretariat, and in this connection requests the Secretary-General to fully use this opportunity and, in particular, to accelerate the recruitment of candidates who have passed national competitive examinations;
	2.	Notes with concern that a large number of candidates who have passed national competitive examinations remain on the roster for years; 
	3.	Requests the Secretary-General to ensure the expeditious placement of successful candidates from national competitive examinations;
	4.	Welcomes the enhanced efforts of the Secretary-General to centrally manage the placement of successful candidates from national competitive examinations, and requests the Secretary-General to report on the outcome of those efforts to it at its sixty-third session;

IV
Mobility
	1.	Reaffirms section VIII of its resolution 59/266; 
	2.	Stresses that the purpose of enhancing mobility is to improve the effectiveness of the Organization and to foster the skills and capacity of staff; 
	3.	Notes the current work of the Secretary-General on mobility policies, and encourages him to continue to make progress in this field in accordance with relevant General Assembly resolutions; 
	4.	Reaffirms that the implementation of mobility policies, while recognizing their anticipated positive effects, may also give rise to problems and challenges that should be addressed; 
	5.	Requests the Secretary-General, in this regard, to report to it at the main part of its sixty-second session on clear indicators, benchmarks, number of staff, timelines and criteria for the implementation of mobility policies, taking into account the needs of the Organization and ways to protect the rights of staff in the context of the system of administration of justice;
	6.	Also requests the Secretary-General to report to it at its sixty-third session on the implemented phases of the mobility policy, along with projections for the envisaged remaining phases and an assessment of the relevant administrative and management issues; 
	7.	Further requests the Secretary-General to provide an analysis of the managed mobility programme, including information on financial implications and on its usefulness in improving organizational efficiency and addressing, inter alia, high vacancy rates, and to report to it thereon at its sixty-third session; 
	8.	Decides, in the light of the experience of managed mobility, to review the enforcement of post-occupancy limits at its sixty-third session; 
	9.	Also decides to approve the establishment of three new temporary positions - two P-4 and one General Service - to provide support for the work of the Secretary-General in this area;
	10.	Further decides to approve an additional appropriation under the regular budget in the amount of 331,000 United States dollars; 
	11.	Decides to approve an additional appropriation in the amount of 35,400 dollars under section 35, Staff assessment, to be offset by an equivalent amount of income under income section 1, Income from staff assessment, of the programme budget for the biennium 2006-2007;
	12.	Notes that the Secretary-General will submit a request for resources in the context of the support account budget for 2007-2008; 
	13.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue to consult with staff, including staff representatives, in the development of mobility policies; 
	14.	Requests the International Civil Service Commission, within its mandate, to continue to keep under review the question of mobility in the United Nations common system, including its implications for career development, and to make recommendations to the General Assembly, as appropriate, in the context of its annual reports; 
	15.	Requests the Secretary-General to take the steps necessary to ensure that mobility is not used as an instrument of coercion against staff and to ensure that appropriate monitoring and accountability measures are in place; 
	16.	Also requests the Secretary-General to report to it at its sixty-third session on specific measures taken to facilitate mobility between the United Nations Secretariat and the United Nations funds, programmes and specialized agencies, and on results achieved;
	17.	Further requests the Secretary-General to continue to consider the use of incentives with a view to encouraging staff to move to duty stations with chronically high vacancy rates;
	18.	Acknowledges that mobility needs to be supported through greater efforts to improve conditions of life and work at the various duty stations; 
	19.	Invites host countries, as appropriate, to review their policies for granting work permits to spouses of United Nations staff; 
	20.	Invites the Secretary-General to continue to explore ways of assisting spouses to find employment opportunities, in consultation with host Governments where necessary, including by taking measures to expedite the issuance of work permits; 
	21.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue to provide career counselling and job-search assistance; to explore telecommuting options for spouses; to give spouses priority consideration for consulting opportunities, where appropriate; to give priority to the relocation of spouses within the managed mobility programme, subject to the availability of suitable posts and satisfactory performance; and to support the creation of inter-agency spouse support networks at all duty stations; 
	22.	Welcomes the intention of the Secretary-General to provide staff with more specific training opportunities, with a view to preparing staff for diverse responsibilities, working in different departments, offices, duty stations or peacekeeping missions and moving across occupational groups;

V
Career development and support
	1.	Encourages the Secretary-General to enhance career progress within the Secretariat by facilitating career development; 
	2.	Emphasizes the importance of defining the target and strategy of training and career development;
	3.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to it at its sixty-third session on staff development policy and the priority of staff development, taking into account the impact of the retirement of many senior staff in the near future; 
	4.	Notes that training is important for the staff and the Organization, also notes, recalling section II, paragraph 57, of its resolution 57/305, that the Secretariat should fully use existing resources, and decides to appropriate an additional 3 million dollars specifically devoted to leadership and management development, information technology training, upgrading of substantive skills and expansion of languages and communication; 
	5.	Decides to revert to the subject of appropriation for training resources in the context of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2008-2009; 
	6.	Requests the Secretary-General to allocate the resources for training on the basis of needs and in an equitable manner, throughout the Secretariat, including for duty stations and regional commissions, and in this context stresses that equal training opportunities should be available for all staff, in accordance with their functions and categories; 
	7.	Also requests the Secretary-General to ensure that programme managers prepare calendars of training of staff working under their supervision on a periodic basis; 
	8.	Stresses that workshops, seminars and training courses should take advantage of the diverse sources of training opportunities available throughout the regions of the world;

VI
Contractual arrangements
	1.	Notes that the existing system of contractual arrangements does not fully comply with the proposed International Civil Service Commission framework;4
	2.	Requests the International Civil Service Commission to consider the proposals of the Secretary-General, in particular the proposal to introduce one United Nations staff contract under one set of staff rules, and to report to it thereon at the second part of its resumed sixty-first session; 
	3.	Stresses the need for rationalization of the current United Nations system of contractual arrangements, which lacks transparency and is complex to administer; 
	4.	Requests the Secretary-General to address the conclusions and recommendations contained in paragraphs 49 to 56 of the report of the Advisory Committee on Administration and Budgetary Questions;2 
	5.	Also requests the Secretary-General to present a detailed road map on the implementation of the proposed contractual arrangements, including on eligibility criteria, at the second part of its resumed sixty-first session; 
	6.	Decides to continue to suspend until 30 June 2007 the application of the four-year limit for appointments of limited duration under the 300 series of the Staff Rules in peacekeeping operations; 
	7.	Authorizes the Secretary-General, bearing in mind paragraph 6 above, to reappoint under the 100 series of the Staff Rules those mission staff whose service under 300-series contracts has reached the four-year limit by 30 June 2007, provided that their functions have been reviewed and found necessary and their performance has been confirmed as fully satisfactory, and requests the Secretary-General to report to it thereon at the second part of its resumed sixty-first session; 

VII
Harmonization of conditions of service
	1.	Recalls section X, paragraph 5, of its resolution 59/266, in which it requested the International Civil Service Commission to present to it an analysis of the desirability and feasibility of harmonizing conditions of service in the field; 
	2.	Notes that the International Civil Service Commission has established a working group to review conditions of service of internationally recruited staff serving in non-family duty stations, and requests the Commission to submit a report thereon to it at the second part of its resumed sixty-first session; 
	3.	Requests the Secretary-General in his capacity as Chairman of the United Nations System Chief Executives Board for Coordination to invite the executive heads to support the work of the International Civil Service Commission by ensuring full and timely compliance with the requests of the Commission for information; 
	4.	Takes note of the proposals of the Secretary-General on harmonization of conditions of service for non-family duty stations, and decides to revert to the issue at the second part of its resumed sixty-first session, following issuance of the report of the International Civil Service Commission; 
	5.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit a comprehensive report to it on the issue, including possible financial implications, if any, at the second part of its resumed sixty-first session;

VIII
Reform of the field service
	Notes the proposal of the Secretary-General to provide for peacekeeping staffing on an ongoing basis and to enhance professionalism and the ability of the United Nations to respond quickly to peacekeeping needs by designating a cadre of continuing civilian positions from within existing capacity, and requests him to submit to it at the second part of its resumed sixty-first session proposals for the operation of the proposed cadre, taking into account the views and observations of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions in paragraphs 70 to 77 of its report;2

IX
Building leadership and management capacity
	1.	Encourages a more rigorous and systematic approach to selection at the Under-Secretary-General, Assistant Secretary-General and Director levels, in order to incorporate skilful leadership and management, with due regard to geographical representation and gender balance in the selection of candidates for those positions; 
	2.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to it at its sixty-third session on the findings and outcomes of this rigorous and systematic approach, as well as on concrete measures to recruit and appoint nationals from unrepresented and underrepresented States, in particular developing countries, including at such senior levels as Under-Secretary-General and Assistant Secretary-General; 
	3.	Emphasizes that training should not only improve the managerial skills of senior officers but should also serve to update and complement their substantive knowledge on various United Nations core mandates;

X
Measures to improve equitable geographical distribution
	1.	Notes the progress made since 1994 in reducing the number of countries that are unrepresented and underrepresented; 
	2.	Also notes that the number of unrepresented and underrepresented Member States has increased since 2002; 
	3.	Welcomes the continuing efforts of the Secretary-General to improve the situation of unrepresented and underrepresented Member States and of those in danger of becoming underrepresented under the system of desirable ranges; 
	4.	Notes with concern that the total number of staff from underrepresented Member States and their proportion to the total number of staff in posts subject to geographical distribution decreased in the period between 2002 and 2006, as reflected in the report of the Secretary-General on the composition of the Secretariat;3
	5.	Welcomes the analysis of the level of underrepresentation in the report of the Secretary-General on the composition of the Secretariat;3 
	6.	Regrets the current insufficient accountability of heads of departments in achieving equitable geographical distribution in the Secretariat; 
	7.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue his ongoing efforts to attain equitable geographical distribution in the Secretariat and to ensure as wide a geographical distribution of staff as possible in all departments and offices of the Secretariat; 
	8.	Also requests the Secretary-General to post information regarding the human resources action plans on the United Nations website and to report to it thereon in the context of the Management Performance Board report; 
	9.	Recalls section II, paragraph 38, of its resolution 57/305 and section IV, paragraph 5, of its resolution 59/266, takes note of the information contained in table 5 of the report of the Secretary-General,3 and expresses concern over the decline in the number of nationals from developing countries at the senior and policymaking levels, as well as the imbalance in different departments of the Secretariat; 
	10.	Notes that the system of geographic ranges was designed to apply to countries rather than to regions or groups; 
	11.	Requests the Secretary-General to ensure, through the Management Performance Board, the monitoring of the implementation of human resources action plans, including the principle of equitable geographical distribution in the Secretariat at all levels as set out in relevant General Assembly resolutions, and the verification of the effective application of measures of transparency and accountability, including in the selection, recruitment and placement processes; 
	12.	Reiterates its request to the Secretary-General to intensify his efforts to increase recruitment from unrepresented and underrepresented Member States and to undertake outreach efforts designed to prevent countries from falling under those categories, urges the Secretary-General, to the extent possible, to take the necessary steps to reduce the number of unrepresented and underrepresented Member States in the Secretariat by 20 per cent by 2008 and by 30 per cent by 2010, compared to the level in 2006, and requests the Secretary-General to report to it thereon on a regular basis beginning with its sixty-third session, as appropriate; 
	13.	Recalls section IV, paragraph 9, of its resolution 59/266, decides to continue the fast-track roster for an additional two-year period, and requests the Secretary-General to report to it at its sixty-third session on the effectiveness of the roster; 
	14.	Requests the Secretary-General to take all necessary measures to ensure, at the senior and policymaking levels of the Secretariat, equitable representation of Member States, especially those with inadequate representation at those levels, and to continue to include relevant information thereon in all future reports on the composition of the Secretariat; 
	15.	Regrets that the Secretary-General has not succeeded in complying with the provisions of its resolutions 41/206 B of 11 December 1986, 53/221, 55/258, 57/305 and 59/266, in which it declared that no post should be considered the exclusive preserve of any Member State or group of States, including at the highest levels, reiterates its request that the Secretary-General ensure that, as a general rule, no national of a Member State succeeds a national of that State in a senior post and that there is no monopoly on senior posts by nationals of any State or group of States, and requests the Secretary-General to report to it at its sixty-third session thereon; 
	16.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary General on a comprehensive assessment of the system of geographical distribution and assessment of the issues relating to possible changes in the number of posts subject to that system;5 
	17.	Reiterates its requests to the Secretary-General to present proposals to effectively increase the representation of developing countries in the Secretariat, and decides to revert to this issue at its sixty-third session; 
	18.	Reaffirms that the system of desirable ranges is the mechanism for recruitment of staff in posts subject to geographical distribution, in accordance with Article 101, paragraph 3, of the Charter of the United Nations; 
	19.	Considers that encouragement of recruitment from unrepresented and underrepresented Member States shall not disallow other qualified candidates from competing; 
	20.	Affirms that measures on meeting organizational mandates, accountability targets and indicators of achievement, with respect to geographical distribution of staff, contained in human resources action plans and recruitment procedures, including selection decisions, shall fully correspond to the provisions contained in Article 101, paragraph 3, of the Charter as well as in relevant General Assembly mandates; 
	21.	Requests the Secretary-General to review the designation of posts in the radio and website management sections of the Department of Public Information to consider whether they should be treated as language posts and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its sixty-second session for its consideration, including on the possible human resources, administrative and financial implications;

XI
Gender representation
	1.	Reaffirms the goal of 50/50 gender distribution in all categories of posts within the United Nations system, especially at the senior and policymaking levels, with full respect for the principle of equitable geographical distribution, in conformity with Article 101 of the Charter, and regrets that progress towards attaining this goal has been slow; 
	2.	Expresses concern at the continuing low proportion of women in the Secretariat, in particular the low proportion among them of women from developing countries, especially at the senior levels, and stresses that the continuing lack of representation or underrepresentation of women from certain countries, in particular from developing countries, should be taken into account and that those women should be accorded equal opportunities in the recruitment process, in full conformity with relevant resolutions; 
	3.	Notes with concern that, in posts subject to the system of desirable ranges, only 25 women from developing countries were recruited between 1 July 2005 and 30 June 2006 among the 83 women appointed during that period; 
	4.	Requests the Secretary-General to increase his efforts to attain and monitor the goal of gender parity in the Secretariat, in particular at senior levels, and in this context to ensure that women, especially those from developing countries and countries with economies in transition, are appropriately represented within the Secretariat, and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its sixty-third session; 
	5.	Also requests the Secretary-General, in the context of attaining this goal, to develop and implement recruitment targets, time frames for meeting those targets and accountability measures; 
	6.	Further requests the Secretary-General to clarify the role of departmental focal points, including in the context of the staff selection system, and their participation in the development and monitoring of the departmental human resource action plans;
	7.	Encourages Member States to support the efforts of the Secretary-General by identifying more women candidates and encouraging them to apply for appointment to positions in the Secretariat and by creating awareness among their nationals, in particular women, of vacancies in the Secretariat; 

XII
Accountability
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the activities of the Ethics Office;6
	2.	Also takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the Management Performance Board;7 
	3.	Reiterates the importance of strengthened accountability in the Organization and of ensuring greater accountability of the Secretary-General to Member States, inter alia, for the effective and efficient implementation of legislative mandates and the use of human and financial resources;
	4.	Requests the Secretary-General to strengthen his efforts to achieve greater transparency at all levels; 
	5.	Recognizes the role of the Office of Human Resources Management in supporting the Secretary-General in holding programme managers accountable, and requests the continuing strengthening of that role; 
	6.	Requests the Secretary-General to present proposals for enforcing the implementation of human resources policies and action plan objectives and to report to it thereon at its sixty-third session;
	7.	Also requests the Secretary-General to submit to it for consideration at its sixty-third session a proposal for the use of incentives and sanctions as an integral part of the personnel management system, bearing in mind the relevant work of the International Civil Service Commission; 
	8.	Welcomes the establishment of the Management Performance Board to strengthen the accountability framework of senior managers so as to ensure that they are properly undertaking the responsibilities that have been entrusted to them, including their performance in achieving the objectives contained in human resources action plans; 
	9.	Stresses that a fair, transparent and effective administration of justice system is an essential feature of proper accountability; 
	10.	Requests the Secretary-General to improve accountability and responsibility in the reform of human resources management as well as the monitoring and control mechanisms and procedures and to report to it at its sixty-third session on action taken in this regard;
XIII
Human resources information technology
	1.	Notes the proposals of the Secretary-General on investing in information and communication technology; 
	2.	Endorses paragraph 68 of the report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions,2 and requests the Secretary-General to ensure that the new information technology infrastructure is compatible with the new system approved in section II of General Assembly resolution 60/283 of 7 July 2006; 
	3.	Notes the efforts made by the Secretary-General to make the human resources information technology system available in both working languages of the Secretariat, and invites the Secretary-General to continue those efforts; 
	4.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to it at its sixty-third session on the implementation of the human resources information technology system;

XIV
Staff buyout
	Takes note of paragraph 64 of the report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions,2 and decides not to pursue the proposal of the Secretary-General on the staff buyout; 

XV
Consultants and individual contractors
	1.	Reaffirms section XI of its resolution 59/266; 
	2.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on consultants and individual contractors;8 
	3.	Endorses the recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions contained in paragraphs 88 to 90 of its report;2
	4.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on comprehensive policy guidelines for consultants in the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees;9

XVI
Employment of retired former staff
	1.	Notes with concern the continuous trend of hiring staff retirees for extended periods of time; 
	2.	Endorses paragraph 84 of the report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions;2

XVII
Other matters
	1.	Reiterates its request to the Secretary-General, contained in its resolution 60/238 of 23 December 2005, to report to it at its sixty-first session on the implementation of the regulations governing the status, basic rights and duties of officials other than Secretariat officials and experts on mission;
	2.	Requests the Secretary-General to present to it at the first part of its resumed sixty-first session, in consultation with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, proposals to address the imbalance in the geographical distribution of the staff in that Office;
	3.	Decides to revert to this issue at the first part of its resumed sixty-first session.

84th plenary meeting
22 December 2006
1 A/59/388, A/59/526 and Add.1, A/59/716, A/59/724, A/59/786, A/60/262, A/60/310, A/60/861, A/61/201, A/61/228 and Corr.1, A/61/255 and Add.1 and Add.1/Corr.1, A/61/257 and Corr.1 and Add.1-3 and Add.1/Corr.1, A/61/274 and A/61/319.
2 A/61/537.
3 A/61/257 and Corr.1.
4  Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixtieth Session, Supplement No. 30 and corrigendum (A/60/30 and Corr.1), annex IV.
5 A/59/724.
6 A/61/274.
7 A/61/319.
8 A/61/257/Add.3.
9 A/61/201.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0650901E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/61/244<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

13
    

13

United NationsA/RES/61/244General AssemblyDistr.: General
30 January 2007Sixty-first session
Agenda items 47, 113, 116, 117, 122, 123, 132, 147 and 149

06-50901

A/RES/61/244

A/RES/61/244

12

13

