UNITED						A
NATIONS



			General Assembly



									Distr.
									GENERAL

									A/RES/48/75
									7 January 1994






Forty-eighth session
Agenda item 71


	RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the First Committee (A/48/676)]


		48/75.	General and complete disarmament

	A

	Relationship between disarmament and development


	The General Assembly,

	Recalling the provisions of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly 1/ concerning the relationship between disarmament and development,

	Recalling also the adoption on 11 September 1987 of the Final Document of the International Conference on the Relationship between Disarmament and Development, 2/

	Recalling further its resolution 47/52 F of 9 December 1992,

	Bearing in mind the final documents of the Tenth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Jakarta from 1 to 6 September 1992, 3/

	Stressing the growing importance of the symbiotic relationship between disarmament and development in current international relations,

__________

	1/	Resolution S-10/2.

	2/	United Nations publication, Sales No. E.87.IX.8.

	3/	See A/47/675-S/24816, annex.
	1.	Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General 4/ and actions undertaken in accordance with the Final Document of the International Conference on the Relationship between Disarmament and Development;

	2.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue to take action, through appropriate organs and within available resources, for the implementation of the action programme adopted at the International Conference; 5/

	3.	Also requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session;

	4.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth session the item entitled "Relationship between disarmament and development".

	81st plenary meeting
	16 December 1993

	B

	Bilateral nuclear-arms negotiations and
	nuclear disarmament

	The General Assembly,

	Recalling its previous relevant resolutions,

	Recognizing the fundamental changes that have taken place with respect to international security, which have permitted agreements on deep reductions in the nuclear armaments of the States possessing the largest inventories of such weapons,

	Mindful that it is the responsibility and obligation of all States to contribute to the process of the relaxation of international tension and to the strengthening of international peace and security,

	Stressing the importance of strengthening international peace and security through disarmament,

	Emphasizing that nuclear disarmament remains one of the principal tasks of our times,

	Stressing also that it is the responsibility of all States to adopt and implement measures towards the attainment of general and complete disarmament under effective international control,

	Appreciating a number of positive developments in the field of nuclear disarmament, in particular the treaty that was concluded on 8 December 1987 between the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America on the elimination of their intermediate-range and shorter-range

______________

	4/	A/48/400.

	5/	United Nations publication, Sales No. E.87.IX.8, para. 35.

missiles, 6/ and the treaties on the reduction and limitation of strategic offensive arms,

 	Noting that there are still significant nuclear arsenals and that the primary responsibility for nuclear disarmament, with the objective of the elimination of nuclear weapons, rests with the nuclear-weapon States, in particular those which possess the largest stockpiles,

	Welcoming the steps that have already been taken by those States to begin the process of reducing the number of nuclear weapons and removing such weapons from a deployed status,

	Noting also the new climate of relations between the United States of America and the States of the former Soviet Union, which permits them to intensify their cooperative efforts to ensure the safety, security and environmentally sound destruction of nuclear weapons,

	Urging the further intensification of such efforts to accelerate the implementation of agreements and unilateral decisions relating to nuclear-arms reduction,

	Welcoming also the reductions made by other nuclear-weapon States in some of their nuclear-weapon programmes, and encouraging all nuclear-weapon States to consider appropriate measures relating to nuclear disarmament,

	Affirming that bilateral and multilateral negotiations on nuclear disarmament should facilitate and complement each other,

	1.	Welcomes the actions taken towards the ratification of the Treaty  on the Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms signed in Moscow on 31 July 1991 by the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America and the protocol to that Treaty signed at Lisbon on 23 May 1992 by the four parties thereto, and urges the parties to take the necessary steps to ensure its entry into force at the earliest possible date;

	2.	Also welcomes the signing of the Treaty between the Russian Federation and the United States of America on the Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, in Moscow on 3 January 1993, and urges the parties to take the steps necessary to bring that Treaty into force at the earliest possible date;

	3.	Expresses its satisfaction at the continuing implementation of the treaty between the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America on the elimination of their intermediate-range and shorter-range missiles, 6/ in particular at the completion by the parties of the destruction of all their declared missiles subject to elimination under the treaty;


_____________

	6/	The United Nations Disarmament Yearbook, vol. 12: 1987 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.88.IX.2), appendix VII.


	4.	Encourages the United States of America, the Russian Federation, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Ukraine to continue their cooperative efforts aimed at eliminating nuclear weapons and strategic offensive arms on the basis of 
existing agreements, and welcomes the contributions that other States are making to such cooperation as well;

	5.	Further encourages and supports the Russian Federation and the United States of America in their efforts to reduce their nuclear armaments and to continue to give those efforts the highest priority in order to contribute to the objective of the elimination of nuclear weapons;

	6.	Invites the Russian Federation and the United States of America to keep other States Members of the United Nations duly informed of progress in their discussions and in the implementation of their strategic offensive arms agreements and unilateral decisions.

	81st plenary meeting
	16 December 1993

	C

	General and complete disarmament

	The General Assembly,

	Aware of its role in the field of disarmament,

	Aware also of the interest of the international community in continuing and intensifying consideration of the question of the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and of vehicles for their delivery in all its aspects,

	1.	Requests the Secretary-General to prepare a short report containing a brief description of the question of the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and of vehicles for their delivery in all its aspects and to transmit it, no later than 1 May 1994, to a representative intergovernmental group of experts for its consideration and suggestions regarding further study of the question by the international community in various multilateral disarmament forums;

	2.	Also requests the Secretary-General to submit his report, together with the suggestions of the representative intergovernmental group of experts, to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session;

	3.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth session an item entitled "Non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and of vehicles for their delivery in all its aspects".

	81st plenary meeting
	16 December 1993







	D

	Prohibition of the dumping of radioactive wastes

	The General Assembly,

	Bearing in mind resolutions CM/Res.1153 (XLVIII) of 1988 7/ and
CM/Res.1225 (L) of 1989, 8/ adopted by the Council of Ministers of the Organization of African Unity, concerning the dumping of nuclear and industrial wastes in Africa,

	Welcoming resolution GC(XXXIII)/RES/509 on the dumping of nuclear wastes, adopted on 29 September 1989 by the General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency at its thirty-third regular session, 9/

	Welcoming also resolution GC(XXXIV)RES/530 establishing a Code of Practice on the International Transboundary Movement of Radioactive Waste, adopted on 21 September 1990 by the General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency at its thirty-fourth regular session, 10/

	Considering its resolution 2602 C (XXIV) of 16 December 1969, in which it requested the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament, 11/ inter alia, to consider effective methods of control against the use of radiological methods of warfare,

	Recalling resolution CM/Res.1356 (LIV) of 1991, adopted by the Council of Ministers of the Organization of African Unity, on the Bamako Convention on the Ban on the Import of Hazardous Wastes into Africa and on the Control of Their Transboundary Movements within Africa, 12/

	Aware of the potential hazards underlying any use of radioactive wastes that would constitute radiological warfare and its implications for regional and international security, in particular for the security of developing countries,

___________

	7/	See A/43/398, annex I.

	8/	See A/44/603, annex I.

	9/	See International Atomic Energy Agency, Resolutions and Other Decisions of the General Conference, Thirty-third Regular Session, 25-29 September 1989 (GC(XXXIII)/RESOLUTIONS (1989)).

	10/		Ibid., Thirty-fourth Regular Session, 17-21 September 1990 (GC(XXXIV)/RESOLUTIONS (1990)).

	11/		The Conference of the Committee on Disarmament became the Committee on Disarmament as from the tenth special session of the General Assembly.  The Committee on Disarmament was redesignated the Conference on Disarmament as from 7 February 1984.

	12/		See A/46/390, annex I.



	Recalling also its resolutions 43/75 Q of 7 December 1988, 44/116 R of 15 December 1989, 45/58 K of 4 December 1990, 46/36 K of 6 December 1991 and 47/52 D of 9 December 1992,

	Desirous of promoting the implementation of paragraph 76 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, 1/

	1.	Takes note of the part of the report of the Conference on Disarmament relating to a future convention on the prohibition of radiological weapons; 13/

	2.	Expresses grave concern regarding any use of nuclear wastes that would constitute radiological warfare and have grave implications for the national security of all States;

	3.	Calls upon all States to take appropriate measures with a view to preventing any dumping of nuclear or radioactive wastes that would infringe upon the sovereignty of States;

	4.	Requests the Conference on Disarmament to take into account, in the negotiations for a convention on the prohibition of radiological weapons, radioactive wastes as part of the scope of such a convention;

	5.	Also requests the Conference on Disarmament to intensify efforts towards an early conclusion of such a convention and to include in its report to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session the progress recorded in the negotiations on this subject;

	6.	Takes note of resolution CM/Res.1356 (LIV) of 1991, adopted by the Council of Ministers of the Organization of Africa Unity, on the Bamako Convention on the Ban on the Import of Hazardous Wastes into Africa and on the Control of Their Transboundary Movements within Africa;

	7.	Expresses the hope that the effective implementation of the International Atomic Energy Agency Code of Practice on the International Transboundary Movement of Radioactive Waste will enhance the protection of all States from the dumping of radioactive wastes on their territories;

	8.	Requests the International Atomic Energy Agency to continue keeping the subject under active review, including the desirability of concluding a legally binding instrument in this field;

	9.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth session the item entitled "Prohibition of the dumping of radioactive wastes".

	81st plenary meeting
	16 December 1993




______________

	13/		Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 27 (A/48/27), sect. III.F.

	E

	Transparency in armaments

	The General Assembly,

	Recalling its resolutions 46/36 L of 9 December 1991 and 47/52 L of 15 December 1992,

	Continuing to take the view that an enhanced level of transparency in armaments contributes greatly to confidence-building and security among States and that the establishment of the Register of Conventional Arms 14/ constitutes an important step forward in the promotion of transparency in military matters,

	Welcoming the report of the Secretary-General on the first year of operation of the Register of Conventional Arms, 15/

	Encouraged by the response of Member States to the request contained in paragraphs 9 and 10 of its resolution 46/36 L to provide data on their imports and exports of arms, as well as available background information regarding their military holdings, procurement through national production and relevant policies,

	Welcoming also the work of the Conference on Disarmament under the item of its agenda entitled "Transparency in armaments",

	Welcoming further the organization by Member States of initiatives and seminars intended to promote transparency in military matters through a widespread reporting of data to the Register of Conventional Arms,

	1.	Reaffirms its determination to ensure the effective operation of the Register of Conventional Arms as provided for in paragraphs 7, 9 and 10 of its resolution 46/36 L;

	2.	Calls upon all Member States to provide the requested data and information for the Register to the Secretary-General by 30 April annually;

	3.	Reaffirms also its request to the Secretary-General to prepare a report, with the assistance of a group of governmental experts to be convened in 1994 on the basis of equitable geographical representation, on the continuing operation of the Register and its further development, taking into account the work of the Conference on Disarmament and the views expressed by Member States, so that a decision may be taken by the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session;

	4.	Requests the Secretary-General to ensure that sufficient resources are made available for the United Nations Secretariat to operate and maintain the Register;

__________

	14/	Resolution 46/36 L, annex.

	15/	A/48/344 and Add.1.
	5.	Encourages the Conference on Disarmament to continue its work undertaken in response to the requests contained in paragraphs 12 to 15 of resolution 46/36 L;

	6.	Reiterates its call upon all Member States to cooperate at a regional and subregional level, taking fully into account the specific conditions prevailing in the region or subregion, with a view to enhancing and coordinating international efforts aimed at increased openness and transparency in armaments;

	7.	Also requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session on progress made in implementing the present resolution;

	8.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth session the item entitled "Transparency in armaments".

	81st plenary meeting
	16 December 1993

	F

	International arms transfers

	The General Assembly,

	Recalling its resolutions 43/75 I of 7 December 1988, 46/36 H of 6 December 1991 and 47/54 A of 9 December 1992, and its decisions 45/415 of 4 December 1990 and 47/419 of 9 December 1992,

	Realizing the urgent need to resolve underlying conflicts, to diminish tensions and to accelerate efforts towards general and complete disarmament with a view to maintaining regional and international peace and security in a world free from the scourge of war and the burden of armaments,

	Reaffirming the role of the United Nations in the field of disarmament and the commitment of Member States to take concrete steps in order to strengthen that role,

	Recognizing that, in the context of international arms transfers, the illicit arms traffic is a disturbing, dangerous and increasingly common phenomenon, and that, with the technical sophistication and destructive capability of conventional weapons, the destabilizing effects of the illicit arms traffic increase,

	Considering that, in the context of international arms transfers, the illicit arms traffic, by its clandestine nature, defies transparency and until now has escaped inclusion within the Register of Conventional Arms,

	Realizing that arms obtained through the illicit arms traffic are most likely to be used for violent purposes, and that even small arms so obtained, directly or indirectly, by underground organizations such as mercenary groups can pose a threat to the security and political stability of the States affected,

	Stressing that effective control over the imports and exports of conventional weapons falls under the responsibility of Member States,

	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General; 16/

	2.	Calls upon all Member States to give priority to eradicating the illicit arms traffic associated with destabilizing activities, such as terrorism, drug trafficking and common criminal acts, and to take immediate action towards this end;

	3.	Urges Member States to monitor arms transfers effectively and to strengthen or adopt strict measures in an effort to prevent arms from falling into the hands of parties engaged in the illicit arms traffic;

	4.	Notes that the Disarmament Commission, at its organizational session in 1993, included the question of international arms transfers, with particular reference to General Assembly resolution 46/36 H, in the agenda of its substantive session in 1994, and requests the Commission to report thereon to the Assembly at its forty-ninth session;

	5.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth session an item entitled "International illicit arms traffic".

	81st plenary meeting
	16 December 1993

	G

	Regional disarmament

	The General Assembly,

	Recalling its resolutions 47/52 G and 47/52 J of 9 December 1992,

	Affirming the abiding commitment of all States to the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations and to international law in the conduct of their international relations,

	Believing that the efforts of the international community to move towards the ideal of general and complete disarmament are guided by the inherent human desire for genuine peace and security, the elimination of the danger of war and the release of economic, intellectual and other resources for peaceful pursuits,

	Noting that regional arrangements for disarmament and arms limitation may free resources of participating States for peaceful purposes, inter alia, the promotion of their economic and social development,





__________

	16/	A/48/324.
	Reaffirming its firm conviction that the regional approach to disarmament is essential to strengthening international peace and security at the regional and global levels,

	Welcoming the initiatives towards disarmament, nuclear non-proliferation and security undertaken by some countries at the regional level,

	Noting with satisfaction the important progress made in various regions of the world through the adoption of arms limitation, peace, security and cooperation agreements, including those related to the prohibition of weapons of mass destruction, and encouraging States in the regions concerned to continue implementing those agreements,

	Convinced that endeavours by countries to promote regional disarmament, taking into account the specific characteristics of each region and in accordance with the principle of undiminished security at the lowest level of armaments for all the participating States, would enhance the security of all States and would thus contribute to international peace and security,

	Recognizing the useful role played by the United Nations regional centres,

	Taking note of the report of the Disarmament Commission, containing the text, adopted by the Commission at its 1993 substantive session, of the guidelines and recommendations for regional approaches to disarmament within the context of global security, 17/

	Expressing its appreciation for the work accomplished by the Disarmament Commission in finalizing the text of those guidelines and recommendations,

	1.	Endorses the guidelines and recommendations for regional approaches to disarmament within the context of global security adopted by the Disarmament Commission at its 1993 substantive session, 17/ and recommends them to all Member States for implementation;

	2.	Affirms that global and regional approaches to disarmament complement each other and should therefore be pursued simultaneously to promote regional and international peace and security;

	3.	Affirms also that multifaceted cooperation among States of a region, especially encompassing the political, economic, social and cultural fields, can be conducive to the strengthening of regional security and stability;

	4.	Encourages States to reach, wherever possible, freely concluded agreements at the regional level on confidence- and security-building measures, disarmament and arms limitations, arrangements to prevent the proliferation in all its aspects of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction, zones of peace and zones free of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction, as well as consultative and cooperative arrangements;

___________

	17/	Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 42 (A/48/42), annex II.
	5.	Supports and encourages efforts aimed at promoting confidence-building measures at the regional level in order to ease regional tensions and to further disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation measures at the regional level;

	6.	Also encourages States to address, in regional arrangements for disarmament and arms limitations, the question of the accumulation of conventional weapons beyond the legitimate self-defence requirements of States;

	7.	Encourages States of a region to examine the possibility of creating, on their own initiative, regional mechanisms and/or institutions for the establishment of measures in the framework of an effort of regional disarmament or for the prevention and peaceful settlement of disputes and conflicts with the assistance, if requested, of the United Nations;

	8.	Invites Member States and regions to bring to the attention of the General Assembly results achieved on regional disarmament, and requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the Assembly at its forty-ninth session on the basis of the replies received;

	9.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth session the item entitled "Regional disarmament".

	81st plenary meeting
	16 December 1993

	H

	Measures to curb the illicit transfer
	and use of conventional weapons

	The General Assembly,

	Recalling its resolution 46/36 H of 6 December 1991 and its decision 47/419 of 9 December 1992 on international arms transfers,

	Considering that the availability of massive quantities of conventional weapons is a contributory factor to armed conflicts around the world,

	Stressing the need for measures that curb the illicit transfer and use of conventional weapons,

	Recognizing that the excessive quantity of conventional weapons in a number of countries constitutes a source of destabilization of their national and their regional security,

	Convinced that peace and security are imperatives for economic development and reconstruction,

	1.	Invites Member States to take appropriate enforcement measures directed at ending the illegal export of conventional weapons from their territories;


	2.	Requests the Secretary-General to seek the views of Governments on effective ways and means of collecting weapons illegally distributed in countries, in the event that such countries so request, and to submit a report to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session.

	81st plenary meeting
	16 December 1993

	I

	Regional disarmament

	The General Assembly,

	Recalling its resolutions 45/58 P of 4 December 1990, 46/36 I of 6 December 1991 and 47/52 J of 9 December 1992,

	Believing that the efforts of the international community to move towards the ideal of general and complete disarmament are guided by the inherent human desire for genuine peace and security, the elimination of the danger of war and the release of economic, intellectual and other resources for peaceful pursuits,

	Affirming the abiding commitment of all States to the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations in the conduct of their international relations,

	Noting that essential guidelines for progress towards general and complete disarmament were adopted at the tenth special session of the General Assembly, 1/

	Taking note of the guidelines and recommendations for regional approaches to disarmament within the context of global security adopted by the Disarmament Commission at its 1993 substantive session, 17/

	Welcoming the prospects of genuine progress in the field of disarmament engendered in recent years as a result of negotiations between the two super-Powers,

	Taking note also of the recent proposals for disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation at the regional and subregional levels,

	Recognizing the importance of confidence-building measures for regional and international peace and security,

	Convinced that endeavours by countries to promote regional disarmament, taking into account the specific characteristics of each region and in accordance with the principle of undiminished security at the lowest level of armaments, would enhance the security of smaller States and would thus contribute to international peace and security by reducing the risk of regional conflicts,

	1.	Stresses that sustained efforts are needed, within the framework of the Conference on Disarmament and under the umbrella of the United Nations, to make progress on the entire range of disarmament issues;

	2.	Affirms that global and regional approaches to disarmament complement each other and should therefore be pursued simultaneously to promote regional and international peace and security;

	3.	Calls upon States to conclude agreements, wherever possible, for nuclear non-proliferation, disarmament and confidence-building measures at regional and subregional levels;

	4.	Welcomes the initiatives towards disarmament, nuclear non-proliferation and security undertaken by some countries at the regional and subregional levels;

	5.	Supports and encourages efforts aimed at promoting confidence-building measures at regional and subregional levels in order to ease regional tensions and to further disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation measures at regional and subregional levels;

	6.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth session the item entitled "Regional disarmament".

	81st plenary meeting
	16 December 1993

	J

	Conventional arms control at the regional
	and subregional levels

	The General Assembly,

	Recognizing the crucial role of conventional arms control in promoting regional and international peace and security,

	Convinced that conventional arms control needs to be pursued primarily in the regional and subregional contexts since most threats to peace and security in the post-cold-war era arise mainly among States located in the same region or subregion,

	Aware that the preservation of a balance in the defence capabilities of States at the lowest level of armaments would contribute to peace and stability and should be a prime objective of conventional arms control,

	Desirous of promoting agreements to strengthen regional peace and security at the lowest possible level of armaments and military forces,

	Believing that militarily significant States, and States with larger military capabilities, have a special responsibility in promoting such agreements for regional security,

	Believing also that one of the principal objectives of conventional arms control should be to prevent the possibility of military attack launched by surprise,

	1.	Decides to give urgent consideration to the issues involved in conventional arms control at the regional and subregional levels;

	2.	Requests the Conference on Disarmament, as a first step, to consider the formulation of principles that can serve as a framework for regional agreements on conventional arms control, and looks forward to a report of the Conference on this subject;

	3.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth session an item entitled "Conventional arms control at the regional and subregional levels".

	81st plenary meeting
	16 December 1993

	K

	Moratorium on the export of anti-personnel land-mines

	The General Assembly,

	Noting that there are as many as 85 million uncleared land-mines throughout the world, particularly in rural areas,

	Expressing deep concern that such mines kill or maim hundreds of people each week, mostly unarmed civilians, obstruct economic development and have other severe consequences, which include inhibiting the repatriation of refugees and the return of internally displaced persons,

	Recalling with satisfaction its resolution 48/7 of 19 October 1993, by which it, inter alia, requested the Secretary-General to submit a comprehensive report on the problems caused by mines and other unexploded devices,

	Convinced that a moratorium by States exporting anti-personnel land-mines that pose grave dangers to civilian populations would reduce substantially the human and economic costs resulting from the use of such devices and would complement the aforementioned initiative,

	Noting with satisfaction that several States have already declared moratoriums on the export, transfer or purchase of anti-personnel land-mines and related devices,

	1.	Calls upon States to agree to a moratorium on the export of anti-personnel land-mines that pose grave dangers to civilian populations;

	2.	Urges States to implement such a moratorium;

	3.	Requests the Secretary-General to prepare a report concerning progress on this initiative, including possible recommendations regarding further appropriate measures to limit the export of anti-personnel land-mines, and to submit it to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session under the item entitled "General and complete disarmament".

	81st plenary meeting
	16 December 1993





	L

	Prohibition of the production of fissile material for
	nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices

	The General Assembly,

	Welcoming the significant progress in reducing nuclear-weapon arsenals as evidenced by the substantive bilateral agreements between the Russian Federation and the United States of America and their respective unilateral undertakings regarding the disposition of fissile material,

	Welcoming also the initiative of the United States of America concerning a multilateral, internationally and effectively verifiable treaty on the prohibition of the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices,

	Welcoming further the decision taken by the Conference on Disarmament on 10 August 1993 to give its Ad Hoc Committee on a Nuclear Test Ban a mandate to negotiate a universal and internationally and effectively verifiable comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty, 18/ and fully endorsing the contents of that decision,

	Convinced that a non-discriminatory, multilateral and internationally and effectively verifiable treaty banning the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices would be a significant contribution to nuclear non-proliferation in all its aspects,

	1.	Recommends the negotiation in the most appropriate international forum of a non-discriminatory, multilateral and internationally and effectively verifiable treaty banning the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices;

	2.	Requests the International Atomic Energy Agency to provide assistance for examination of verification arrangements for such a treaty as required;

	3.	Calls upon all States to demonstrate their commitment to the objectives of a non-discriminatory, multilateral and internationally and effectively verifiable treaty banning the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices;

	4.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-ninth session an item entitled "Prohibition of the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices".


	81st plenary meeting,
	16 December 1993




_____________

	18/	See Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 27 (A/48/27), para. 31 (para. 2 of the quoted text).

	/...


	/...

A/RES/48/75
Page 1



	A/RES/48/75
	Page 1




	/...


	/...

A/RES/48/75
Page 15



	A/RES/48/75
	Page 15




	/...


	/...

	A/RES/48/75
	Page 15



