<<ODS JOB NO>>N9677101E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/50/194<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>

UNITED						A
NATIONS



			General Assembly



									Distr.
									GENERAL

									A/RES/50/194
									11 March 1996






Fiftieth session
Agenda item 112 (c)


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/50/635/Add.3)]


50/194.Situation of human rights in Myanmar

	The General Assembly,

	Reaffirming that all Member States have an obligation to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms as stated in the Charter of the United Nations and elaborated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 1/ the International Covenants on Human Rights 2/ and other applicable human rights instruments,

	Aware that, in accordance with the Charter, the Organization promotes and encourages respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all and that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that the will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of government,

	Recalling its resolution 49/197 of 23 December 1994,

	Recalling also Commission on Human Rights resolution 1992/58 of 3 March 1992, 3/ in which the Commission, inter alia, decided to nominate a special rapporteur to establish direct contacts with the Government and with the people of Myanmar, including political leaders deprived of their liberty, their families and their lawyers, with a view to examining the situation of human rights in Myanmar and following any progress made towards the transfer of power to a civilian Government and the drafting of a new constitution, the lifting of restrictions on personal freedoms and the restoration of human rights in Myanmar,


	Taking note of Commission on Human Rights resolution 1995/72 of 8 March 1995, 4/ in which the Commission decided to extend for one year the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar,

	Gravely concerned that the Government of Myanmar still has not implemented its commitment to take all necessary steps towards democracy in the light of the results of the elections held in 1990,

	Noting the recent developments regarding the composition of the National Convention,

	Welcoming the release without conditions, on 10 July 1995, of Nobel Peace Prize Laureate Aung San Suu Kyi and a number of other political prisoners, as called for by the General Assembly,

	Also gravely concerned, however, at the continued violations of human rights in Myanmar, as reported by the Special Rapporteur, including killings of civilians, arbitrary arrest and detention, restrictions on freedom of expression and association, torture, forced labour, forced portering, human rights abuses in border areas in the course of military operations, forced relocations and development projects, abuse of women and the imposition of oppressive measures directed in particular at ethnic and religious minorities,

	Welcoming the continuing cooperation between the Government of Myanmar and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees on the voluntary repatriation of refugees from Bangladesh to Myanmar,

	Noting, however, that the human rights situation in Myanmar has resulted in flows of refugees to neighbouring countries, thus creating problems for the countries concerned,

	1.	Expresses its appreciation to the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on the situation of human rights in Myanmar for his interim report; 5/

	2.	Also expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General for his report; 6/

	3.	Deplores the continued violations of human rights in Myanmar;

	4.	Welcomes the release without conditions of Nobel Peace Prize Laureate Aung San Suu Kyi and other prominent political leaders;

	5.	Strongly urges the Government of Myanmar to release immediately and unconditionally detained political leaders and all political prisoners, to ensure their physical integrity and to permit them to participate in the process of national reconciliation;

	6.	Urges the Government of Myanmar to engage, at the earliest possible date, in a substantive political dialogue with Aung San Suu Kyi and other political leaders, including representatives of ethnic groups, as the best means of promoting national reconciliation and the full and early restoration of democracy;

	7.	Welcomes the discussions between the Government of Myanmar and the Secretary-General, and further encourages the Government of Myanmar to cooperate fully with the Secretary-General;

	8.	Again urges the Government of Myanmar, in conformity with its assurances given at various times, to take all necessary steps towards the restoration of democracy in accordance with the will of the people as expressed in the democratic elections held in 1990 and to ensure that political parties can function freely;

	9.	Expresses its concern that most of the representatives duly elected in 1990 are still excluded from participating in the meetings of the National Convention, created to prepare basic elements for the drafting of a new constitution, and that one of its objectives is to maintain the participation of the armed forces in a leading role in the future political life of the State, and notes with concern that the working procedures of the National Convention do not permit the elected representatives of the people freely to express their views;

	10.	Strongly urges the Government of Myanmar to take all appropriate measures to allow all citizens to participate freely in the political process, in accordance with the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and to accelerate the process of transition to democracy, in particular through the transfer of power to democratically elected representatives;

	11.	Also strongly urges the Government of Myanmar to ensure full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression and assembly, and the protection of the rights of persons belonging to ethnic and religious minorities, and to put an end to violations of the right to life and integrity of the human being, to the practices of torture, abuse of women, forced labour and forced relocations, and to enforced disappearances and summary executions;

	12.	Appeals to the Government of Myanmar to consider becoming a party to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 7/ the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights 7/ and the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman and Degrading Treatment or Punishment; 8/


	13.	Urges the Government of Myanmar to fulfil its obligations as a State party to the Forced Labour Convention, 1930 (No. 29), and to the Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organize Convention, 1948 (No. 87), of the International Labour Organization;

	14.	Stresses the importance for the Government of Myanmar to give particular attention to conditions in the country's jails and to allow the International Committee of the Red Cross to communicate freely and confidentially with prisoners;

	15.	Calls upon the Government of Myanmar to respect fully the obligations of the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949, 9/ and to make use of such services as may be offered by impartial humanitarian bodies;

	16.	Expresses its grave concern at the attacks by Myanmar army soldiers on the Karens and the Karennis during the past year, resulting in further refugee flows to a neighbouring country;

	17.	Welcomes the cessation of hostilities following the conclusion of cease-fire agreements between the Government of Myanmar and several ethnic groups;

	18.	Encourages the Government of Myanmar to create the necessary conditions to ensure an end to the movements of refugees to neighbouring countries and to create conditions conducive to their voluntary return and their full reintegration, in conditions of safety and dignity;

	19.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue his discussions with the Government of Myanmar in order to assist in its efforts for national reconciliation and in the implementation of the present resolution and to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-first session and to the Commission on Human Rights at its fifty-second session;

	20.	Decides to continue its consideration of this question at its fifty-first session.


	99th plenary meeting
	22 December 1995
     1/	Resolution 217 A (III).
     2/	Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
     3/	See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1992, Supplement No. 2 (E/1992/22), chap. II, sect. A.
     4/	Ibid., 1995, Supplement No. 3 and corrigenda (E/1995/23 and Corr.1 and 2), chap. II, sect. A.
     5/	See A/50/568.
     6/	A/50/782.
     7/	See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
     8/	Resolution 39/46, annex.
     9/	United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, Nos. 970-973.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------



 

 


96-77101	/...


96-77101	/...

A/RES/50/194
Page 1



	A/RES/50/194
	Page 1




96-77101	/...


96-77101	/...

A/RES/50/194
Page 2



	A/RES/50/194
	Page 2




	/...


	/...

A/RES/50/194
Page 3



	A/RES/50/194
	Page 3







