<<ODS JOB NO>>N9876489E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/52/78<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>

UNITED									A
NATIONS



					General Assembly


																		Distr.
																		GENERAL

																		A/RES/52/78
																		4 February 1998






Fifty-second session
Agenda item 18


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[without reference to a Main Committee (A/52/L.64 and Add.1)]


52/78.Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples


	The General Assembly,

	Having examined the report of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,1

	Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and all its subsequent resolutions concerning the implementation of the Declaration, most recently resolution 51/146 of 13 December 1996, as well as the relevant resolutions of the Security Council,

	Recognizing that the eradication of colonialism is one of the priorities of the Organization for the decade that began in 1990,

	Deeply conscious of the need to take, speedily, measures to eliminate the last vestiges of colonialism by the year 2000, as called for in its resolution 43/47 of 22 November 1988,

	Reiterating its conviction of the need for the elimination of colonialism, as well as of the need for the total eradication of racial discrimination and violations of basic human rights,

	Noting with satisfaction the achievements of the Special Committee in contributing to the effective and complete implementation of the Declaration and other relevant resolutions of the United Nations on decolonization,


	Stressing the importance of the participation of the administering Powers in the work of the Special Committee,

	Noting with satisfaction the cooperation and active participation of some administering Powers in the work of the Special Committee, as well as their continued readiness to receive United Nations visiting missions in the Territories under their administration,

	Noting with concern the negative impact that the non-participation of certain administering Powers has had on the work of the Special Committee, depriving it of an important source of information on the Territories under their administration,

	Aware of the pressing need of newly independent and emerging States for assistance from the United Nations and its system of organizations in the economic, social and other fields,

	Aware also of the pressing need of the remaining Non-Self-Governing Territories, including in particular the small island Territories, for economic, social and other assistance from the United Nations and the organizations within its system,

	Taking special note of the fact that the Special Committee held a Caribbean Regional Seminar to Review the Political, Economic and Social Conditions in the Small Island Non-Self-Governing Territories at St. John's, Antigua and Barbuda, from 21 to 23 May 1997,2

	1.	Reaffirms its resolution 1514 (XV) and all other resolutions on decolonization, including its resolution 43/47, in which it declared the decade that began in 1990 as the International Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism, and calls upon the administering Powers, in accordance with those resolutions, to take all necessary steps to enable the peoples of the Territories concerned to exercise fully as soon as possible their right to self-determination, including independence;

	2.	Affirms once again that the continuation of colonialism in any form or manifestation, including economic exploitation, is incompatible with the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights3 and the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples;

	3.	Reaffirms its determination to continue to take all steps necessary to bring about the complete and speedy eradication of colonialism and the faithful observance by all States of the relevant provisions of the Charter, the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights;

	4.	Affirms once again its support for the aspirations of the peoples under colonial rule to exercise their right to self-determination, including independence;

	5.	Approves the report of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples covering its work during 1997, including the programme of work envisaged for 1998;4

	6.	Calls upon all States, in particular the administering Powers, as well as the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system, to give effect within their respective spheres of competence to the recommendations of the Special Committee for the implementation of the Declaration and other relevant resolutions of the United Nations;

	7.	Calls upon the administering Powers to ensure that foreign economic activities in the Non-Self-Governing Territories under their administration are directed to assist the peoples of those Territories in the exercise of their right to self-determination;

	8.	Takes note of the decision of some of the administering Powers to close or reduce some of the military bases in the Non-Self-Governing Territories;

	9.	Calls upon the administering Powers to eliminate the remaining military bases in the Non-Self-Governing Territories in compliance with the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly, and urges them not to involve those Territories in any offensive acts or interference against other States;

	10.	Urges all States, directly and through their action in the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system, to provide moral and material assistance to the peoples of colonial Territories, and requests that the administering Powers, in consultation with the Governments of the Territories under their administration, take steps to enlist and make effective use of all possible assistance, on both a bilateral and a multilateral basis, in the strengthening of the economies of those Territories;

	11.	Requests the Special Committee to continue to seek suitable means for the immediate and full implementation of the Declaration and to carry out those actions approved by the General Assembly regarding the International Decade for the Eradication of Colonialism in all Territories that have not yet exercised their right to self-determination, including independence, and in particular:

	(a)	To formulate specific proposals for the elimination of the remaining manifestations of colonialism and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its fifty-third session;

	(b)	To continue to examine the implementation by Member States of resolution 1514 (XV) and other relevant resolutions on decolonization;

	(c)	To continue to pay special attention to the small Territories, in particular through the dispatch of regular visiting missions, and to recommend to the General Assembly the most suitable steps to be taken to enable the populations of those Territories to exercise their right to self-determination and independence;

	(d)	To take all necessary steps to enlist worldwide support among Governments, as well as national and international organizations, for the achievement of the objectives of the Declaration and the implementation of the relevant resolutions of the United Nations;

	12.	Calls upon the administering Powers to continue to cooperate with the Special Committee in the discharge of its mandate and to receive visiting missions to the Territories to secure first-hand information and to ascertain the wishes and aspirations of their inhabitants;

	13.	Also calls upon the administering Powers that have not participated in the work of the Special Committee to do so at its 1998 session;

	14.	Requests the Secretary-General, the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system to provide economic, social and other assistance to the Non-Self-Governing Territories and to continue to do so, as appropriate, after they exercise their right to self-determination, including independence;


	15.	Welcomes the decision of the Secretary-General of 27 October 1997:5

	(a)	That the substantive responsibilities for the decolonization programme will be maintained in the Department of Political Affairs of the Secretariat;

	(b)	To establish a stand-alone decolonization unit with the necessary resources to provide substantive input for the work of the Special Committee;

	(c)	That the Department of General Assembly Affairs and Conference Services of the Secretariat will  be responsible for the technical secretariat servicing relating to the decolonization programme, as outlined in his letter of 17 March 1997;6

and his commitment to implement subprogramme 1.6 of the medium-term plan for the period 1998-2001;7

	16.	Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Special Committee with the facilities and services required for the implementation of the present resolution, as well as of the other resolutions and decisions on decolonization adopted by the General Assembly and the Special Committee.

	69th plenary meeting
	10 December 1997
1 A/52/23 (Parts I-VII). For the final text, see Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-second Session, Supplement No. 23.
2 See A/AC.109/2089.
3 Resolution 217 A (III).
4 A/52/23 (Part I), chap. I, sect. J. For the final text, see Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-second Session, Supplement No. 23.
5 A/52/531.
6 See A/51/829, sect. C.
7 See A/51/6/Rev. 1 and Corr.1.  For the final text, see Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-first Session, Supplement No. 6.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------



 

 


98-76489	/...


98-76489	/...

A/RES/52/78
Page 1



	A/RES/52/78
	Page 1




98-76489	/...


98-76489	/...

A/RES/52/78
Page 2



	A/RES/52/78
	Page 2




	/...


	/...

A/RES/52/78
Page 3



	A/RES/52/78
	Page 3







