[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 1 May 2013
[without reference to a Main Committee (A/67/L.62)]
67/260.	Modalities, format and organization of the high-level meeting of the General Assembly on the appraisal of the United Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 67/190 of 20 December 2012, in which it recalled its decision to conduct, in 2013, an appraisal of the progress achieved in the implementation of the United Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons1 and decided to convene, within existing resources, a high-level meeting of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, no later than July 2013, in order to assess achievements, gaps and challenges, including in the implementation of the relevant legal instruments,
	Recalling also its resolution 64/293 of 30 July 2010, by which it adopted the Global Plan of Action,
	Recalling further its resolution 55/25 of 15 November 2000, by which it adopted the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime2 and the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime,3
	Recalling its decision in paragraph 13 of resolution 67/190 to determine the modalities of the high-level meeting, including the participation of international, regional and subregional organizations, as well as civil society, including non-governmental organizations, the private sector and the media, whose role is emphasized in the Global Plan of Action,
	1.	Decides that the high-level meeting of the General Assembly on the appraisal of the United Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons1 will be held on Monday, 13 May, and Tuesday, 14 May 2013, and will consist of an opening plenary meeting on 13 May from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m., plenary meetings on 13 May from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and on 14 May from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m., and a closing plenary meeting after the list of speakers has been exhausted, as well as two consecutive interactive panel discussions on 13 May in the afternoon;
	2.	Also decides that the opening plenary meeting will feature statements by the President of the General Assembly, the Secretary-General and the Executive Director of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime as well as an eminent person actively engaged in the fight against trafficking in persons and a representative, who may be a survivor, from a non-governmental organization in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council, both of whom are to be identified by the President of the Assembly;
	3.	Further decides that the organizational arrangements for the interactive panel discussions to take place on Monday, 13 May 2013, in the afternoon and to be chaired by Member States at the invitation of the President of the General Assembly, after consultations with regional groups, will be as follows:
	(a)	Interactive panel discussion 1, which will take place from 3 p.m. to 4.30 p.m., will address the theme "The Global Plan of Action, relevant legal instruments and effective partnerships to protect and assist victims of human trafficking";
	(b)	Interactive panel discussion 2, which will take place from 4.30 p.m. to 6 p.m., will address the theme "Sharing best practices and lessons learned for prevention and prosecution in the implementation of the Global Plan of Action and relevant legal instruments";
	(c)	The Chairs of the interactive panel discussions will present summaries of the discussions at the closing plenary meeting, followed by final remarks by the President of the General Assembly;
	(d)	In order to promote interactive and substantive discussions, participation in each panel discussion will include Member States, observers, representatives of United Nations organizations and entities, and representatives of international, regional and subregional organizations, as well as of civil society, including non-governmental organizations, the private sector and the media;
	4.	Recalls its request in paragraph 14 of resolution 67/190 that the President of the General Assembly prepare a summary of the high-level meeting identifying achievements, gaps and challenges in the implementation of the Global Plan of Action and relevant legal instruments, and decides to bring the summary to the attention of relevant United Nations entities and other stakeholders;
	5.	Invites Member States, the Holy See and the State of Palestine, in their capacity as observer States, and the European Union, in its capacity as observer, to be represented at the highest possible level at the meeting;
	6.	Encourages Member States to consider including in their delegations to the high-level meeting representatives of civil society active in combating trafficking in persons and representatives of the private sector;
	7.	Invites all relevant United Nations entities and other relevant intergovernmental, regional and subregional organizations to participate in the high-level meeting;
	8.	Requests the President of the General Assembly to draw up a list of interested representatives of non-governmental organizations in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council who may participate in the high-level meeting;
	9.	Also requests the President of the General Assembly to draw up a list of representatives of other relevant non-governmental organizations, civil society organizations, the private sector and the media active in combating trafficking in persons, taking into account the principle of transparency and the principle of equitable geographical representation, and to submit the proposed list to Member States for their consideration on a non-objection basis and to bring the list to the attention of the Assembly;
	10.	Further requests the President of the General Assembly, in consultation with Member States, to finalize the organizational arrangements for the meetings, taking into account the duration of the meetings, the identification of the eminent person and the representative from a non-governmental organization in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council to speak at the opening plenary meeting and the identification of Chairs for the interactive panel discussions, bearing in mind the level of representation as well as equitable geographical representation;
	11.	Encourages Member States, United Nations entities, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, private sector entities and other relevant stakeholders to consider supporting the participation of representatives from developing countries, including representatives of non-governmental organizations from those countries, in order to ensure the broadest possible participation, and requests the Secretary-General to take all necessary measures in this regard;
	12.	Decides that the proceedings of the high-level meeting shall be webcast;
	13.	Encourages Member States and other stakeholders to continue to contribute to the United Nations Voluntary Trust Fund for Victims of Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, which was established by the Global Plan of Action.

75th plenary meeting
1 May 2013

1 Resolution 64/293. 
2 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2225, No. 39574. 
3 Ibid., vol. 2237, No. 39574. 
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1249420E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/67/260<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

2
    

2

United NationsA/RES/67/260General AssemblyDistr.: General
16 August 2013Sixty-seventh session
Agenda item 103

12-49420
*1249420*Please recycle 

A/RES/67/260Modalities, format and organization of the high-level meeting of the General Assembly on the appraisal of the United Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons

Modalities, format and organization of the high-level meeting of the General Assembly on the appraisal of the United Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in PersonsA/RES/67/260

2/3

3/3

