[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 18 December 2008
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/63/431)]
63/193.	Preparations for the Twelfth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 56/119 of 19 December 2001 on the role, function, periodicity and duration of the United Nations congresses on the prevention of crime and the treatment of offenders, and its resolution 62/173 of 18 December 2007 on the follow-up to the Eleventh United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice and preparations for the Twelfth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, in which it, inter alia, accepted with gratitude the offer of the Government of Brazil to act as host to the Twelfth Congress,
	Considering that, pursuant to its resolutions 415 (V) of 1 December 1950 and 46/152 of 18 December 1991, the Twelfth Congress is to be held in 2010,
	Bearing in mind the guidelines for and the format of United Nations congresses, as stipulated in paragraph 2 of its resolution 56/119, as well as paragraphs 29 and 30 of the statement of principles and programme of action of the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme, annexed to its resolution 46/152,
	Bearing in mind also the conclusions and recommendations contained in the report of the meeting of the Intergovernmental Group of Experts on Lessons Learned from United Nations Congresses on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, held in Bangkok from 15 to 18 August 2006,1 which the General Assembly endorsed in its resolution 62/173,
	Recognizing the significant contributions of the United Nations congresses on crime prevention and criminal justice in promoting the exchange of experience in research, law and policy development and the identification of emerging trends and issues in crime prevention and criminal justice among States, intergovernmental organizations and individual experts representing various professions and disciplines,
	Recalling that, in its resolution 62/173, it requested the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, at its seventeenth session, to finalize the programme for the Twelfth Congress and to make its final recommendations on the theme and on the organization of round tables and workshops to be held by panels of experts, through the Economic and Social Council, to the General Assembly,
	Recalling also that, in its resolution 62/173, it requested the Secretary-General to prepare a discussion guide for the regional preparatory meetings for the Twelfth Congress,
	Recalling further its resolution 60/177 of 16 December 2005, in which it endorsed the Bangkok Declaration on Synergies and Responses: Strategic Alliances in Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice adopted by the Eleventh Congress, as contained in the annex to that resolution, and Economic and Social Council resolution 2005/15 of 22 July 2005, in which the Council endorsed the Bangkok Declaration,
	Stressing the importance of undertaking all preparatory activities for the Twelfth Congress in a timely and concerted manner,
	Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on the follow-up to the Eleventh Congress and preparations for the Twelfth Congress,2
	1.	Notes the progress made thus far in the preparations for the Twelfth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice;
	2.	Decides to hold the Twelfth Congress in Salvador, Brazil, from 12 to 19 April 2010, with pre-Congress consultations to be held on 11 April 2010;
	3.	Also decides that the high-level segment of the Twelfth Congress shall be held during the last two days of the Congress in order to allow Heads of State or Government and Government ministers to focus on the main substantive agenda items of the Congress;
	4.	Further decides that the main theme of the Twelfth Congress shall be "Comprehensive strategies for global challenges: crime prevention and criminal justice systems and their development in a changing world";
	5.	Approves the following provisional agenda for the Twelfth Congress, finalized by the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice at its seventeenth session:
	1.	Opening of the Congress.
	2.	Organizational matters.
	3.	Children, youth and crime.
	4.	Provision of technical assistance to facilitate the ratification and implementation of the international instruments related to the prevention and suppression of terrorism.
	5.	Making the United Nations guidelines on crime prevention work.
	6.	Criminal justice responses to the smuggling of migrants and trafficking in persons: links to transnational organized crime.
	7.	International cooperation to address money-laundering based on existing and relevant United Nations and other instruments.
	8.	Recent developments in the use of science and technology by offenders and by competent authorities in fighting crime, including the case of cybercrime.
	9.	Strengthening international cooperation in fighting crime-related problems: practical approaches.
	10.	Crime prevention and criminal justice responses to violence against migrants, migrant workers and their families.
	11.	Adoption of the report of the Congress;
	6.	Decides that the following issues shall be considered in workshops within the framework of the Twelfth Congress:
	(a)	International criminal justice education for the rule of law;
	(b)	Survey of United Nations and other best practices in the treatment of prisoners in the criminal justice system;
	(c)	Practical approaches to preventing urban crime;
	(d)	Links between drug trafficking and other forms of organized crime: international coordinated response;
	(e)	Strategies and best practices against overcrowding in correctional facilities;
	7.	Requests the Secretary-General, in cooperation with the institutes of the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme network, to prepare a discussion guide for the regional preparatory meetings for the Twelfth Congress in a timely manner in order to enable the regional preparatory meetings to commence early in 2009, and invites Member States to be actively involved in that process;
	8.	Urges participants in the regional preparatory meetings to examine the substantive items on the agenda and the topics of the workshops of the Twelfth Congress and to make action-oriented recommendations to serve as a basis for the draft recommendations and conclusions for consideration by the Twelfth Congress and the Commission at its nineteenth session;
	9.	Emphasizes the importance of the workshops to be held within the framework of the Twelfth Congress, and invites Member States, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations and other relevant entities to provide financial, organizational and technical support to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime and the institutes of the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme network for the preparations for the workshops, including the preparation and circulation of relevant background material;
	10.	Invites donor countries to cooperate with developing countries to ensure their full participation, in particular in the workshops;
	11.	Requests the Secretary-General to prepare a plan for the documentation for the Twelfth Congress, in consultation with the extended Bureau of the Commission;
	12.	Reiterates its request to the Secretary-General to facilitate the organization of regional preparatory meetings for the Twelfth Congress and to make available the necessary resources for the participation of the least developed countries in those meetings and in the Congress itself, in accordance with past practice;
	13.	Encourages Governments to undertake preparations for the Twelfth Congress at an early stage by all appropriate means, including, where appropriate, the establishment of national preparatory committees, with a view to contributing to focused and productive discussion on the topics to be discussed in the workshops and to participating actively in the organization of and follow-up to the workshops;
	14.	Reiterates its invitation to Member States to be represented at the Twelfth Congress at the highest possible level, for example, by Heads of State or Government or Government ministers and attorneys general, to make statements on the theme and topics of the Congress and to participate in thematic interactive round tables;
	15.	Requests the Secretary-General to facilitate the organization of ancillary meetings of non-governmental and professional organizations participating in the Twelfth Congress, in accordance with past practice, as well as meetings of professional and geographical interest groups, and to take appropriate measures to encourage the participation of the academic and research community in the Congress;
	16.	Again encourages the relevant specialized agencies, United Nations programmes and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, as well as other professional organizations, to cooperate with the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime in the preparations for the Twelfth Congress;
	17.	Requests the Secretary-General to appoint a Secretary-General and an Executive Secretary of the Twelfth Congress, in accordance with past practice, to perform their functions under the rules of procedure for United Nations congresses on crime prevention and criminal justice;
	18.	Requests the Commission to accord sufficient time at its eighteenth session to reviewing the progress made in the preparations for the Twelfth Congress, to finalize in good time all the necessary organizational and substantive arrangements and to make its recommendations to the General Assembly through the Economic and Social Council;
	19.	Requests the Secretary-General to ensure the proper follow-up to the present resolution and to report thereon to the General Assembly through the Commission at its eighteenth session.

71st plenary meeting
18 December 2008
1 E/CN.15/2007/6.
2 E/CN.15/2008/14.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0848237E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/63/193<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/63/193General AssemblyDistr.: General
24 February 2009Sixty-third session
Agenda item 97

08-48237

A/RES/63/193

A/RES/63/193

4

3

