[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly
[without reference to a Main Committee (A/56/L.63/Rev.1 and Add.1)]
56/219.  Assistance in mine action


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 48/7 of 19 October 1993, 49/215 of 23 December 1994, 50/82 of 14 December 1995, 51/149 of 13 December 1996 and 52/173 of 18 December 1997, on assistance in mine clearance, and its resolutions 53/26 of 17 November 1998, 54/191 of 17 December 1999 and 55/120 of 6 December 2000, on assistance in mine action, all adopted without a vote,
	Considering mine action to be an important component of United Nations humanitarian and development activities,
	Reaffirming its deep concern at the tremendous humanitarian and development problems caused by the presence of mines and other unexploded ordnance that constitute an obstacle to the return of refugees and other displaced persons, to humanitarian aid operations and to reconstruction and economic development, as well as to the restoration of normal social conditions, and that have serious and lasting social and economic consequences for the populations of mine-affected countries,
	Bearing in mind the serious threat that mines and other unexploded ordnance pose to the safety, health and lives of local civilian populations, as well as of personnel participating in humanitarian, peacekeeping and rehabilitation programmes and operations,
	Reiterating its dismay at the high number of victims of mines, especially among civilian populations, including women and children, and recalling in this context Commission on Human Rights resolutions 1995/79 of 8 March 1995,1 1996/85 of 24 April 1996,2 1997/78 of 18 April 1997,3 1998/76 of 22 April 1998,4 1999/80 of 28 April 1999,5 2000/85 of 27 April 20006 and 2001/75 of 25 April 2001,7 on the rights of the child, and resolutions 1996/27 of 19 April 1996,2 1998/31 of 17 April 1998,4 2000/51 of 25 April 20006 and decision 1997/107 of 11 April 1997,8 on the human rights of persons with disabilities,
	Deeply alarmed by the number of mines that continue to be laid each year, as well as the presence of a large number of mines and other unexploded ordnance as a result of armed conflicts, and thus convinced of the necessity and urgency of a significant increase in mine-clearance efforts by the international community with a view to eliminating the threat of landmines to civilians as soon as possible,
	Noting the inclusion in Amended Protocol II9 to the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects10 of a number of provisions of importance for mine-clearance operations, notably the requirement of detectability, and provision of information and technical and material assistance necessary to remove or otherwise render ineffective existing minefields, mines and booby traps, and noting also that Amended Protocol II to the Convention entered into force on 3 December 1998,
	Noting also the conclusions and recommendations adopted at the Second Annual Conference of the States Parties to Amended Protocol II to the Convention, held in Geneva from 11 to 13 December 2000,11
	Recalling that the States parties at the First Review Conference of the States Parties to the Convention declared their commitment to keep the provisions of the Protocol under review in order to ensure that the concerns regarding the weapons it covers are addressed, and that they would encourage the efforts of the United Nations and other organizations to address all problems related to landmines,
	Noting that the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction12 entered into force on 1 March 1999 and that the Convention has been accepted formally by one hundred and twenty-two States and signed but not yet ratified by an additional twenty States,
	Noting also the conclusions of the Third Meeting of the States Parties to the Convention, held in Managua from 18 to 21 September 2001, taking note of the reaffirmed commitments that were made, among other things, to provide assistance for mine clearance and rehabilitation, the social and economic reintegration of mine victims and mine-awareness programmes and to eradicate anti-personnel mines, and taking note also of the work of the intersessional programme established by States parties to the Convention,
	Stressing the need to convince mine-affected States to halt new deployments of anti-personnel mines in order to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of mine-clearance operations,
	Recognizing the important role that the international community, in particular States involved in the deployment of mines, can play in assisting mine clearance in mine-affected countries by providing necessary maps and information and appropriate technical and material assistance to remove or otherwise render ineffective existing minefields, mines and booby traps,
	Concerned about the limited availability of safe and cost-effective mine-detection and mine-clearance equipment, as well as the need for effective global coordination in research and development to improve the relevant technology, and conscious of the need to promote further and more rapid progress in this field and to foster international technical cooperation to this end,
	Concerned also about the limited availability of the technical, material and financial resources needed to meet the cost associated with mine-clearance activities in mine-affected countries,
	Recognizing that, in addition to the primary role of States, the United Nations has an important role to play in the field of assistance in mine action,
	Reaffirming the need to reinforce international cooperation in the area of mine action and to devote the necessary resources to that end,
	Concerned about the critical financial situation of the Mine Action Service of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations of the Secretariat,
	Welcoming the mine-action coordination centres already established under the auspices of the United Nations, as well as the creation of international trust funds for mine clearance and other mine-action activities,
	Noting with satisfaction the inclusion in the mandates of several peacekeeping operations of provisions relating to mine-action work carried out under the direction of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations, in the context of such operations,
	Commending the action already taken by the United Nations system, donor and recipient Governments, the International Committee of the Red Cross and non-governmental organizations to coordinate their efforts and seek solutions to the problems related to the presence of mines and other unexploded ordnance, as well as their assistance to victims of mines,
	Welcoming the role of the Secretary-General in increasing public awareness of the problem of landmines,
	1.	Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General on assistance in mine action;13
	2.	Calls, in particular, for the continuation of the efforts of the United Nations, with the assistance of States and institutions as appropriate, to foster the establishment of mine-action capacities in countries where mines constitute a serious threat to the safety, health and lives of the local population or an impediment to social and economic development efforts at the national and local levels, emphasizes the importance of developing national mine-action capacities, and urges all Member States, in particular those that have the capacity to do so, to assist mine-affected countries in the establishment and development of national capacities in mine clearance, mine awareness and victim assistance;
	3.	Invites Member States to develop and support national programmes, in cooperation with the relevant bodies of the United Nations system where appropriate, to promote awareness of landmines, especially among women and children;
	4.	Expresses its appreciation to Governments, regional organizations and other donors for their financial and in-kind contributions to mine action, including contributions for emergency operations and for national capacity-building programmes;
	5.	Appeals to Governments, regional organizations and other donors to continue, and whenever possible increase, their support to mine action through further contributions, including contributions through the Voluntary Trust Fund for Assistance in Mine Action, to allow for the timely delivery of mine-action assistance in emergency situations;
	6.	Encourages all relevant multilateral and national programmes and bodies to include, in coordination with the United Nations, activities related to mine action in their humanitarian, rehabilitation, reconstruction and development assistance activities, where appropriate, bearing in mind the need to ensure national ownership, sustainability and capacity-building;
	7.	Stresses the importance of international support for emergency assistance to victims of mines and for the care and rehabilitation and social and economic reintegration of the victims, and also stresses that such assistance should be integrated into broader public health and socio-economic strategies;
	8.	Encourages Governments, relevant United Nations bodies and other donors to take further action to promote gender- and age-appropriate mine-awareness programmes, victim assistance and child-centred rehabilitation, thereby reducing the number of child victims and relieving their plight;
	9.	Emphasizes again the important role of the United Nations in the effective coordination of mine-action activities, including those by regional organizations, and especially the role of the Mine Action Service of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations of the Secretariat, and stresses the need for the continuous assessment of this role by the General Assembly;
	10.	Emphasizes in this regard the role of the Mine Action Service as the focal point for mine action within the United Nations system and its ongoing collaboration with and coordination of all the mine-related activities of the United Nations agencies, funds and programmes;
	11.	Notes with appreciation the mine-action strategy covering the period 2001-2005 submitted by the Secretary-General,14 requests him to optimize it by seeking and taking into account the views of Member States and taking into consideration the impact of the landmine problem on rehabilitation, reconstruction and development, with a view to ensuring the effectiveness of assistance in mine action by the United Nations, emphasizes in this respect the importance of further multisectoral assessments and surveys better to define the nature, scope and impact of the landmine problem in affected countries and to support the establishment of clear priorities and national plans of action, notes with appreciation in this regard the ongoing development by the United Nations of International Mine Action Standards to support the safe and effective conduct of mine-action activities, emphasizes the need for an inclusive process to be followed in the development of such standards, and encourages the Secretary-General to circulate the completed standards as a United Nations document to all Member States;
	12.	Takes note with appreciation of the Information Management Policy For Mine Action submitted by the Secretary-General, and emphasizes in this context the importance of developing a comprehensive information management system for mine action, following an inclusive process, under the overall coordination of the Mine Action Service and with the support of the Geneva International Centre for Humanitarian Demining, in order to facilitate the coordination of field activities and the setting of priorities therein;
	13.	Welcomes in this respect the development of an Electronic Mine Information Network to support the role of the United Nations as a repository of mine-related information and to serve as a gateway to all relevant data made available by Member States and regional, governmental and non-governmental organizations and foundations for mine action;
	14.	Welcomes also recent approaches with regard to the establishment of mine-action coordination centres, encourages the further establishment of such centres, especially in emergency situations, and also encourages States to support the activities of mine-action coordination centres and trust funds established to coordinate assistance in mine action under the auspices of the Mine Action Service;
	15.	Encourages the ongoing development of an emergency response plan by the United Nations to respond to emergency mine-action requirements, and emphasizes the need for such a plan to build upon all existing capacities;
	16.	Urges Member States and regional, governmental and non-governmental organizations and foundations to continue to extend full assistance and cooperation to the Secretary-General and, in particular, to provide him with information and data, as well as other appropriate resources that could be useful in strengthening the coordination role of the United Nations in mine action, in particular in the fields of mine awareness, training, surveying, detection and clearance, scientific research on mine-detection and mine-clearance technology and information on and distribution of medical equipment and supplies;
	17.	Emphasizes in this regard the importance of recording the location of mines, of retaining all such records and making them available to concerned parties upon cessation of hostilities, and welcomes the strengthening of the relevant provisions in international law;
	18.	Calls upon Member States, especially those that have the capacity to do so, to provide the necessary information and technical, financial and material assistance, as appropriate, and to locate, remove, destroy or otherwise render ineffective existing minefields, mines, booby traps and other devices in accordance with international law, as soon as possible;
	19.	Urges Member States and regional, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations and foundations that have the ability to do so to provide, as appropriate, technological assistance to mine-affected countries and to promote scientific research and development on humanitarian mine-action techniques and technology so that mine-action activities may be carried out more effectively at lower costs and through safer means and to promote international collaboration in this regard;
	20.	Encourages Member States and regional, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations and foundations to continue to support ongoing activities to promote appropriate technology, as well as international operational and safety standards for humanitarian mine-action activities;
	21.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session a report on the progress achieved on all relevant issues outlined both in his previous reports to the Assembly on assistance in mine clearance and mine action and in the present resolution, including the progress made by the International Committee of the Red Cross and other international and regional organizations as well as national programmes, and on the operation of the Voluntary Trust Fund for Assistance in Mine Action and other mine-action programmes;
	22.	Invites the Secretary-General to continue to study how to secure a more sound financial basis for the Mine Action Service and to present options to this effect to the General Assembly;
	23.	Also invites the Secretary-General further to study ways and means of increasing public awareness of the impact of the problem of landmines and other unexploded ordnance on affected countries and to present options to this effect to the General Assembly;
	24.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-seventh session the item entitled "Assistance in mine action".

91st plenary meeting
21 December 2001
1 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1995, Supplement No. 3 and corrigenda (E/1995/23 and Corr.1 and 2), chap. II, sect. A.
2 Ibid., 1996, Supplement No. 3 and corrigendum (E/1996/23 and Corr.1), chap. II, sect. A.
3 Ibid., 1997, Supplement No. 3 (E/1997/23), chap. II, sect. A.
4 Ibid., 1998, Supplement No. 3 (E/1998/23), chap. II, sect. A.
5 Ibid., 1999, Supplement No. 3 (E/1999/23), chap. II, sect. A.
6 Ibid., 2000, Supplement No. 3 and corrigendum (E/2000/23 and Corr.1), chap. II, sect. A.
7 Ibid., 2001, Supplement No. 3 (E/2001/23), chap. II, sect. A.
8 Ibid., 1997, Supplement No. 3 (E/1997/23), chap. II, sect. B.
9 CCW/CONF.I/16 (Part I), annex B.
10 See The United Nations Disarmament Yearbook, vol. 5: 1980 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.81.IX.4), appendix VII.
11 See CCW/AP.II/CONF.2/1.
12 See CD/1478.
13 A/56/448 and Add.1 and 2.
14 A/56/448/Add.1.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0149406E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/56/219<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

6
    

6

United NationsA/RES/56/219General AssemblyDistr.: General
14 January 2002Fifty-sixth session
Agenda item 38

01 49406

A/RES/56/219


A/RES/56/219


6

5

