[Start1]


Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 5 December 2016
[on the report of the First Committee (A/71/443)]
71/27.	Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean (Treaty of Tlatelolco)


	The General Assembly, 
	Recalling that the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean (Treaty of Tlatelolco)1 was opened for signature in Mexico City on 14 February 1967,
	Recalling also that, in its resolution 2286 (XXII) of 5 December 1967, the General Assembly welcomed with special satisfaction the Treaty of Tlatelolco as an event of historic significance in the efforts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons and to promote international peace and security, 
	Considering that the fiftieth anniversary of the opening for signature of the Treaty of Tlatelolco will be commemorated at the ministerial level in Mexico City on 14 February 2017, at the twenty-fifth session of the General Conference of the Agency for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean,
	Recalling that, in its preamble, the Treaty of Tlatelolco states that militarily denuclearized zones are not an end in themselves but rather a means for achieving general and complete disarmament at a later stage,
	Recalling also that, in its preamble, the Treaty of Tlatelolco notes that the establishment of militarily denuclearized zones is closely linked with the maintenance of peace and security in the respective regions and that the military denuclearization of vast geographical zones, adopted by the sovereign decision of the States comprised therein, will exercise a beneficial influence on other regions where similar conditions exist, 
	Considering that, 50 years following its adoption, the Treaty of Tlatelolco remains a living instrument and a source of inspiration for the creation of other nuclear-weapon-free zones, 
	Taking note of the proclamation of Latin America and the Caribbean as a zone of peace by the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States at its second summit, held in Havana on 28 and 29 January 2014, and the commitment undertaken in this context by the States of the region to continue to promote nuclear disarmament as a priority objective,2 
	Highlighting the fact that the Treaty of Tlatelolco, which is in force for all 33 sovereign States of the region, consolidated the first nuclear-weapon-free zone established in a densely populated region,
	Recognizing the important contribution of the treaties of Tlatelolco, Rarotonga,3 Bangkok4 and Pelindaba5 and the Treaty on a Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone in Central Asia, as well as the Antarctic Treaty6 and the declaration by Mongolia of its nuclear-weapon-free status, to the achievement of nuclear non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament,
	Recalling all relevant United Nations resolutions in support of nuclear-weapon-free zones,
	Highlighting the value of enhancing cooperation across the nuclear-weapon-free zones, including through the holding of joint meetings of States parties, signatories and observers to the treaties establishing such zones,
	Welcoming the convening of Conferences of States Parties and Signatories to Treaties that Establish Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zones and Mongolia and their contribution to achieving and maintaining a nuclear-weapon-free world,
	Noting that the 2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, in its final document,7 encouraged the establishment of new nuclear-weapon-free zones on the basis of arrangements freely arrived at among States of the region concerned and the fostering of cooperation and enhanced consultation mechanisms among the existing nuclear-weapon-free zones through the establishment of concrete measures, in order to fully implement the principles and objectives of the relevant nuclear-weapon-free zone treaties, and commended the Agency for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean for its leadership in this field,
	Reaffirming the importance of the Agency as the appropriate legal and political forum for ensuring full compliance with and implementation of the Treaty of Tlatelolco, as well as cooperation with the entities of other nuclear-weapon-free zones,
	1.	Welcomes the fact that the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean (Treaty of Tlatelolco)1 is in force for all sovereign States of the region;
	2.	Also welcomes the commemoration at the ministerial level of the fiftieth anniversary of the opening for signature of the Treaty of Tlatelolco, to be held in Mexico City on 14 February 2017, at the twenty-fifth session of the General Conference of the Agency for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean;
	3.	Encourages once again States parties to Additional Protocols I and II to the Treaty of Tlatelolco to review their interpretative declarations thereto, in accordance with action 9 of the Final Document of the 2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,8 reaffirming and recognizing the legitimate interests of the States that comprise the nuclear-weapon-free zone in Latin America and the Caribbean in receiving full and unequivocal security assurances from the nuclear-weapon States;
	4.	Encourages the States members of the Agency for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean to continue the activities and efforts that they conduct jointly with the Agency, inter alia:
	(a)	To take note of the efforts that are being undertaken in a multilateral context to identify and seek effective measures that allow for compliance with disarmament and non-proliferation commitments; 
	(b)	To enhance cooperation with States parties and signatories to treaties that establish nuclear-weapon-free zones and Mongolia; 
	(c)	To promote activities on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation education;
	5.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its seventy-fourth session an item entitled "Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean (Treaty of Tlatelolco)".

51st plenary meeting
5 December 2016

1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 634, No. 9068.
2 See A/68/914, annex.
3 The United Nations Disarmament Yearbook, vol. 10: 1985 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.86.IX.7), appendix VII.
4 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1981, No. 33873.
5 A/50/426, annex.
6 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 402, No. 5778.
7 2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, Final Document, vols. I-III (NPT/CONF.2010/50 (Vols. I-III)).
8 Ibid., vol. I (NPT/CONF.2010/50 (Vol. I)), part I, Conclusions and recommendations for follow-on actions, section I, entitled "Nuclear disarmament".
[Start1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1641749E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/71/27<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/71/27General AssemblyDistr.: General
9 December 2016Seventy-first session
Agenda item 91 

16-20716 (E)
*1620716*Please recycle 

A/RES/71/27Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin
America and the Caribbean (Treaty of Tlatelolco)

Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin
America and the Caribbean (Treaty of Tlatelolco)A/RES/71/27

2/2

3/3

