[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 2 December 2011
[on the report of the First Committee (A/66/412)]
66/47.	The illicit trade in small arms and light weapons 
in all its aspects


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 65/64 of 8 December 2010, as well as all previous resolutions entitled "The illicit trade in small arms and light weapons in all its aspects", including resolution 56/24 V of 24 December 2001, 
	Emphasizing the importance of the continued and full implementation of the Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, adopted by the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects,1
	Welcoming the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the Programme of Action, and recognizing its important contribution to international efforts on this matter, 
	Emphasizing the importance of the continued and full implementation of the International Instrument to Enable States to Identify and Trace, in a Timely and Reliable Manner, Illicit Small Arms and Light Weapons (the International Tracing Instrument),2
	Recalling the commitment of States to the Programme of Action as the main framework for measures within the activities of the international community to prevent, combat and eradicate the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons in all its aspects,
	Underlining the need for States to enhance their efforts to build national capacity for the effective implementation of the Programme of Action and the International Tracing Instrument,
	Welcoming the Open-ended Meeting of Governmental Experts on the Implementation of the Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, held in New York from 9 to 13 May 2011, 
	Welcoming also the early designation of Nigeria as the Chair of the second conference to review progress made in the implementation of the Programme of Action, to be held in 2012, and of its preparatory committee, 
	Stressing the importance of voluntary national reporting to follow up on the Programme of Action as a means of assessing overall implementation efforts, including implementation challenges and opportunities, and which could greatly facilitate the rendering of international cooperation and assistance to affected States, 
	Noting that tools developed by the Office for Disarmament Affairs of the Secretariat, including the Programme of Action Implementation Support System, and those developed by Member States could be used to assess progress made in the implementation of the Programme of Action, 
	Welcoming the coordinated efforts within the United Nations to implement the Programme of Action, including by developing the Programme of Action Implementation Support System, which forms an integrated clearing house for international cooperation and assistance for capacity-building in the area of small arms and light weapons, 
	Taking into account the importance of regional approaches to the implementation of the Programme of Action, 
	Noting with satisfaction regional and subregional efforts being undertaken in support of the implementation of the Programme of Action, and commending the progress that has already been made in this regard, including tackling both supply and demand factors that are relevant to addressing the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons,
	Reiterating that illicit brokering in small arms and light weapons is a serious problem that the international community should address urgently,
	Recognizing the efforts undertaken by non-governmental organizations in the provision of assistance to States for the implementation of the Programme of Action,
	Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General,3 which includes an overview of the implementation of resolution 65/64,
	1.	Underlines the fact that the issue of the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons in all its aspects requires concerted efforts at the national, regional and international levels to prevent, combat and eradicate the illicit manufacture, transfer and circulation of small arms and light weapons, and that their uncontrolled spread in many regions of the world has a wide range of humanitarian and socio-economic consequences and poses a serious threat to peace, reconciliation, safety, security, stability and sustainable development at the individual, local, national, regional and international levels;
	2.	Encourages all initiatives, including those of the United Nations, other international organizations, regional and subregional organizations, non-governmental organizations and civil society, for the successful implementation of the Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects,1 and calls upon all Member States to contribute towards the continued implementation of the Programme of Action at the national, regional and global levels;
	3.	Encourages States to implement the recommendations contained in the report of the Group of Governmental Experts established pursuant to resolution 60/81 to consider further steps to enhance international cooperation in preventing, combating and eradicating illicit brokering in small arms and light weapons;4
	4.	Recalls its endorsement of the report adopted at the fourth biennial meeting of States to consider the implementation of the Programme of Action,5 and encourages all States to implement, as appropriate, the measures highlighted in the section of the report entitled "The way forward";
	5.	Endorses the report adopted at the Open-ended Meeting of Governmental Experts on the Implementation of the Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects,6 and takes note with appreciation of the Chair's summary of discussions,7 prepared under his own responsibility, reflecting his interpretation of the main points under discussion;
	6.	Decides that, pursuant to resolution 65/64, the second conference to review progress made in the implementation of the Programme of Action will be held in New York, from 27 August to 7 September 2012; 
	7.	Also decides that the preparatory committee for the review conference will be convened in New York, from 19 to 23 March 2012; 
	8.	Encourages all efforts to build national capacity for the effective implementation of the Programme of Action, including those highlighted in the report of the fourth biennial meeting of States, and, inter alia, through the strengthening of national coordination agencies or bodies and institutional infrastructure; 
	9.	Encourages States to submit, on a voluntary basis, national reports on their implementation of the Programme of Action,8 notes that States will submit national reports on their implementation of the International Tracing Instrument,9 in advance of the convening of the preparatory committee but, to the extent possible, by the end of 2011, and encourages those States in a position to do so to use the reporting template made available by the Office for Disarmament Affairs10 and to include therein information, as appropriate, on progress made in the implementation of the measures highlighted in the reports of the third and fourth biennial meetings of States;
	10.	Also encourages States, on a voluntary basis, to make increasing use of their national reports as another tool for communicating assistance needs and information on the resources and mechanisms available to address such needs, and encourages States in a position to render such assistance to make use of these national reports; 
	11.	Encourages States, relevant international and regional organizations and civil society with the capacity to do so to cooperate with and assist other States, upon request, in the preparation of comprehensive reports on their implementation of the Programme of Action;
	12.	Calls upon all States to implement the International Tracing Instrument by, inter alia, including in their national reports the name and contact information of the national points of contact and information on national marking practices used to indicate country of manufacture and/or country of import, as applicable; 
	13.	Recognizes the urgent need to maintain and enhance national controls, in accordance with the Programme of Action, to prevent, combat and eradicate the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons, including their diversion to unauthorized recipients, taking into account, inter alia, their adverse humanitarian and socio-economic consequences on the affected States; 
	14.	Invites States, at the second review conference, to review progress made in the implementation of the Programme of Action, and, subject to the agenda of the conference to be agreed by the preparatory committee, encourages them to explore ways to strengthen its implementation, including consideration of the possibility of convening a further open-ended meeting of governmental experts; 
	15.	Encourages States in a position to do so to provide financial assistance, through a voluntary sponsorship fund, that could be distributed, upon request, to States otherwise unable to participate in meetings on the Programme of Action;
	16.	Encourages interested States and relevant international and regional organizations in a position to do so to convene regional meetings to consider and advance the implementation of the Programme of Action, as well as the International Tracing Instrument, in preparation for the meetings on the Programme of Action;
	17.	Emphasizes the fact that initiatives by the international community with respect to international cooperation and assistance remain essential and complementary to national implementation efforts, as well as to those at the regional and global levels; 
	18.	Encourages States to consider ways to enhance cooperation and assistance and to assess their effectiveness in order to ensure the implementation of the Programme of Action; 
	19.	Recognizes the necessity for interested States to develop effective coordination mechanisms, where they do not exist, in order to match the needs of States with existing resources to enhance the implementation of the Programme of Action and to make international cooperation and assistance more effective, and in this regard encourages States to make use, as appropriate, of the Programme of Action Implementation Support System;
	20.	Encourages States to consider, among other mechanisms, the coherent identification of needs, priorities, national plans and programmes that may require international cooperation and assistance from States and regional and international organizations in a position to do so; 
	21.	Encourages civil society and relevant organizations to strengthen their cooperation and work with States at the respective national and regional levels to achieve the implementation of the Programme of Action; 
	22.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session on the implementation of the present resolution; 
	23.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-seventh session the item entitled "The illicit trade in small arms and light weapons in all its aspects".

71st plenary meeting
2 December 2011
1 See Report of the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, New York, 9-20 July 2001 (A/CONF.192/15), chap. IV, para. 24.
2 A/60/88 and Corr.2, annex; see also decision 60/519.
3 A/66/177.
4 See A/62/163 and Corr.1.
5 See A/CONF.192/BMS/2010/3, sect. IV, para. 23.
6 A/CONF.192/MGE/2011/1.
7 A/66/157, annex.
8 See Report of the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, New York, 9-20 July 2001 (A/CONF.192/15), chap. IV (sect. II, para. 33, of the quoted text).
9 See A/60/88 and Corr.2, annex, para. 36.
10 Available from www.poa-iss.org/reporting.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1146164E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/66/47<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------





3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/66/47General AssemblyDistr.: General
12 January 2012Sixty-sixth session
Agenda item 98 (t)

11-46164
*1146164*

A/RES/66/47

A/RES/66/47

4

5

