[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 2 November 2009
[without reference to a Main Committee (A/64/L.9 and Add.1)]
64/9.  Report of the International Criminal Court


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 63/21 of 11 November 2008, and all its previous relevant resolutions,
	Recalling also that the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court1 reaffirms the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations,
	Reiterating the historic significance of the adoption of the Rome Statute,
	Emphasizing that justice, especially transitional justice in conflict and post-conflict societies, is a fundamental building block of sustainable peace,
	Convinced that ending impunity is essential if a society in conflict or recovering from conflict is to come to terms with past abuses committed against civilians affected by armed conflict and to prevent such abuses in the future,
	Noting with satisfaction the fact that the International Criminal Court has achieved considerable progress in its analyses, investigations and judicial proceedings in various situations and cases which were referred to it by States parties to the Rome Statute and by the Security Council, in accordance with the Rome Statute,
	Recalling that effective and comprehensive cooperation and assistance in all aspects of its mandate by States, the United Nations and other international and regional organizations remains essential for the International Criminal Court to carry out its activities,
	Expressing its appreciation to the Secretary-General for providing effective and efficient assistance to the International Criminal Court in accordance with the Relationship Agreement between the United Nations and the International Criminal Court ("Relationship Agreement"),2
	Acknowledging the Relationship Agreement as approved by the General Assembly in its resolution 58/318 of 13 September 2004, including paragraph 3 of the resolution with respect to the payment in full of expenses accruing to the United Nations as a result of the implementation of the Relationship Agreement,3 which provides a framework for continued cooperation between the International Criminal Court and the United Nations, which could include the facilitation by the United Nations of the Court's field activities, and encouraging the conclusion of supplementary arrangements and agreements, as necessary,
	Welcoming the continuous support given by civil society to the International Criminal Court,
	Recognizing the role of the International Criminal Court in a multilateral system that aims to end impunity, establish the rule of law, promote and encourage respect for human rights and achieve sustainable peace, in accordance with international law and the purposes and principles of the Charter,
	Expressing its appreciation to the International Criminal Court for providing assistance to the Special Court for Sierra Leone,
	1.	Welcomes the report of the International Criminal Court for 2008/09;4
	2.	Welcomes the States that have become parties to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court1 in the past year, and calls upon all States in all regions of the world that are not yet parties to the Rome Statute to consider ratifying or acceding to it without delay;
	3.	Welcomes the States parties as well as States not parties to the Rome Statute that have become parties to the Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the International Criminal Court,5 and calls upon all States that have not yet done so to consider becoming parties to that Agreement;
	4.	Calls upon States parties to the Rome Statute that have not yet done so to adopt national legislation to implement obligations emanating from the Rome Statute and to cooperate with the International Criminal Court in the exercise of its functions, and recalls the provision of technical assistance by States parties in this respect;
	5.	Welcomes the cooperation and assistance provided thus far to the International Criminal Court by States parties as well as States not parties, the United Nations and other international and regional organizations, and calls upon those States that are under an obligation to cooperate to provide such cooperation and assistance in the future, in particular with regard to arrest and surrender, the provision of evidence, the protection and relocation of victims and witnesses and the enforcement of sentences;
	6.	Emphasizes the importance of cooperation with States that are not parties to the Rome Statute;
	7.	Invites regional organizations to consider concluding cooperation agreements with the International Criminal Court;
	8.	Recalls that, by virtue of article 12, paragraph 3, of the Rome Statute, a State which is not a party to the Statute may, by declaration lodged with the Registrar of the International Criminal Court, accept the exercise of jurisdiction by the Court with respect to specific crimes that are mentioned in paragraph 2 of that article;
	9.	Encourages all States parties to take the interests, the need for assistance and the mandate of the International Criminal Court into account when relevant matters are being discussed in the United Nations;
	10.	Emphasizes the importance of the full implementation of the Relationship Agreement between the United Nations and the International Criminal Court,2 which forms a framework for close cooperation between the two organizations and for consultation on matters of mutual interest pursuant to the provisions of the Relationship Agreement and in conformity with the respective provisions of the Charter of the United Nations and the Rome Statute, as well as the need for the Secretary-General to inform the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session of the expenses incurred and reimbursements received by the United Nations in connection with assistance provided to the International Criminal Court;
	11.	Expresses its appreciation for the work undertaken by the International Criminal Court liaison office to United Nations Headquarters, and encourages the Secretary-General to continue to work closely with that office;
	12.	Encourages States to contribute to the Trust Fund established for the benefit of victims of crimes within the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court and the families of such victims, and acknowledges with appreciation contributions made to that Trust Fund thus far;
	13.	Notes that the Special Working Group on the Crime of Aggression, which was open to all States on an equal footing, has concluded its mandate and has elaborated proposals for a provision on the crime of aggression, in accordance with article 123 of the Rome Statute;
	14.	Notes that the Assembly of States Parties to the Rome Statute decided at its seventh session, while recalling that, according to article 112, paragraph 6, of the Rome Statute, the Assembly of States Parties shall meet at the seat of the International Criminal Court or at the United Nations Headquarters, to hold its eighth session in The Hague,6 looks forward to the eighth session, which is to be held from 18 to 26 November 2009, and requests the Secretary-General to provide the necessary services and facilities in accordance with the Relationship Agreement and resolution 58/318;
	15.	Notes the convening by the Secretary-General of the Review Conference, which will begin on 31 May 2010 in Kampala, and which may provide an opportunity to address issues, in addition to those related to the possible definition of the crime of aggression, that have been identified by States, including States that are not parties to the Rome Statute;
	16.	Encourages the widest possible participation of States in the Assembly of States Parties and particularly in the Review Conference, invites States to contribute to the Trust Fund for the participation of the least developed countries, and acknowledges with appreciation contributions made to that Trust Fund thus far;
	17.	Invites the International Criminal Court to submit, in accordance with article 6 of the Relationship Agreement, a report on its activities for 2009/10, for consideration by the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session.

34th plenary meeting
2 November 2009
1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2187, No. 38544.
2 Ibid., vol. 2283, No. 1272.
3 Articles 10 and 13 of the Relationship Agreement.
4 See A/64/356.
5 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2271, No. 40446.
6 See resolution ICC-ASP/7/Res.3 of the Assembly of States Parties to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0946237E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/64/9<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/64/9General AssemblyDistr.: General
22 December 2009Sixty-fourth session
Agenda item 75

09-46237
*0946237*

A/RES/64/9

A/RES/64/9

2

3

