[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 22 December 2011
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/66/440)]
66/196.	Sustainable tourism and sustainable development in Central America
	The General Assembly,
	Recalling all relevant resolutions of the General Assembly on this matter,
	Recalling also the Manila Declaration on World Tourism,1 the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development2 and Agenda 213, the Amman Declaration on Peace through Tourism,4 the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development5 and the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation"),6 the Declaration of Barbados7 and the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,8 the Mauritius Declaration9 and the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,10 and the Istanbul Declaration11 and the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2011-2020,12
	Recalling further the outcome document of the High-level Plenary Meeting of the General Assembly on the Millennium Development Goals,13
	Recognizing the important dimension and role of sustainable tourism as a positive instrument towards the eradication of poverty, the protection of the environment and the improvement of quality of life and its contribution to achieving sustainable development, especially in developing countries,
	Welcoming the efforts of the Marrakech Process on sustainable consumption and production, the achievements of the International Task Force on Sustainable Tourism Development and the objectives of the Global Partnership for Sustainable Tourism, launched in 2011 as a permanent successor to the International Task Force,
	Taking note of the outcome document of the first workshop on sustainable tourism, adopted by the Central American Tourism Council of the Central American Integration System on 24 June 2011, at a meeting organized in cooperation with the World Tourism Organization in Roatan, Honduras, in the framework of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, to be held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, from 20 to 22 June 2012,
	Taking note also of the Joint Declaration, the Plan of Action and the declaration of 2012 as the Year of Sustainable Tourism in Central America, adopted at the thirty-seventh meeting of Heads of State and Government of the Central American Integration System, held in San Salvador on 22 July 2011, and the Declaration of the Central American Tourism Council, adopted at its eighty-second meeting, held in Guanacaste, Costa Rica, on 7 July 2011,
	Emphasizing that sustainable tourism in Central America is a fundamental pillar of regional integration and an engine of social and economic development, given its significant contribution in terms of jobs, income, investment and hard currency, and therefore contributes to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals, 
	1.	Invites States Members of the United Nations and other stakeholders, and the World Tourism Organization, to continue to support the activities undertaken by the Central American countries for the promotion of responsible and sustainable tourism in the region, including in the context of emergency preparedness and response to natural disasters, as well as for capacity-building in order to achieve the internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals, by extending the benefits of tourism to all sectors of society, in particular the most vulnerable and marginalized groups of the population;
	2.	Takes note of the work of the Central American Governments in the implementation of existing programmes designed to launch and promote sustainable tourism throughout the region, in coordination with the Central American Commission for Environment and Development, and welcomes their contribution to the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in this regard;
	3.	Encourages the Central American countries, through the Central American Tourism Council and the Central American Tourism Integration Secretariat, to continue to support sustainable tourism with policies that foster responsive and inclusive tourism, strengthen regional identity and protect the natural and cultural heritage, especially their ecosystems and biodiversity and notes that existing initiatives, such as the Global Partnership for Sustainable Tourism, among other international initiatives, can deliver direct and focused support to Governments to this end; 
	4.	Recognizes the need to promote the development of sustainable tourism, in particular through the consumption of sustainable tourism products and services, and to strengthen the development of ecotourism, taking into account the declaration of 2012 as the Year of Sustainable Tourism in Central America, while maintaining the culture and environmental integrity of indigenous and local communities and enhancing the protection of ecologically sensitive areas and the natural heritage, and to promote the development of sustainable tourism and capacity-building in order to contribute to the strengthening of rural and local communities and small and medium-sized enterprises, taking into account the need to address, inter alia, the challenges of climate change and the need to halt the loss of biodiversity; 
	5.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session on developments related to the implementation of the present resolution, taking into account the reports prepared by the World Tourism Organization in this field.

91st plenary meeting
22 December 2011
1 A/36/236, annex, appendix I.
2 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 
3-14 June 1992, vol. I, Resolutions Adopted by the Conference (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum), resolution 1, annex I.
3 Ibid., annex II.
4 A/55/640, annex.
5 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 
26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
6 Ibid., resolution 2, annex.
7 Report of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Bridgetown, Barbados, 25 April-6 May 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.94.I.18 and corrigenda), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
8 Ibid., annex II.
9 Report of the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Port Louis, Mauritius, 
10-14 January 2005 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.05.II.A.4 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
10 Ibid., annex II.
11 Report of the Fourth United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries, Istanbul, 
Turkey, 9-13 May 2011 (United Nations publication, Sales No. 11.II.A.l), chap. I.
12 Ibid., chap. II.
13 See resolution 65/1.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1147058E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/66/196<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/66/196General AssemblyDistr.: General
28 February 2012Sixty-sixth session
Agenda item 19

11-47058
*1147058*

A/RES/66/196

A/RES/66/196

2

3

