[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly

[on the report of the Special Political and Decolonization Committee
(Fourth Committee) (A/55/578)]
55/143.		Question of Tokelau


	The General Assembly,
	Having considered the question of Tokelau,
	Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the question of Tokelau,1
	Recalling the solemn declaration on the future status of Tokelau, delivered by the Ulu-o-Tokelau (the highest authority on Tokelau) on 30 July 1994, that an act of self-determination in Tokelau is now under active consideration, together with the constitution of a self-governing Tokelau, and that the present preference of Tokelau is for a status of free association with New Zealand,
	Recalling also its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and all resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to Non-Self-Governing Territories, in particular General Assembly resolution 54/89 of 6 December 1999,
	Recalling further the emphasis placed in the solemn declaration on the terms of Tokelau's intended free association relationship with New Zealand, including the expectation that the form of help that Tokelau could continue to expect from New Zealand in promoting the well-being of its people, besides its external interests, would be clearly established in the framework of that relationship,
	Noting with appreciation the continuing exemplary cooperation of New Zealand as the administering Power with regard to the work of the Special Committee relating to Tokelau and its readiness to permit access by United Nations visiting missions to the Territory,
	Noting also with appreciation the collaborative contribution to the development of Tokelau by New Zealand and the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system, in particular the United Nations Development Programme and the International Telecommunication Union,
	Recalling the dispatch in 1994 of a United Nations visiting mission to Tokelau,
	Noting that, as a small island Territory, Tokelau exemplifies the situation of most remaining Non-Self-Governing Territories,
	Noting also that, as a case study pointing to successful decolonization, Tokelau has wider significance for the United Nations as it seeks to complete its work in decolonization,
	1.	Notes that Tokelau remains firmly committed to the development of self-government and to an act of self-determination that would result in Tokelau assuming a status in accordance with the options on future status for Non-Self-Governing Territories contained in principle VI of the annex to General Assembly resolution 1541 (XV) of 15 December 1960;
	2.	Also notes the desire of Tokelau to move at its own pace towards an act of self-determination;
	3.	Further notes the inauguration in 1999 of a national Government based on village elections by universal adult suffrage;
	4.	Acknowledges the participation of the Ulu-o-Tokelau in the Pacific regional seminar, held at Majuro, from 16 to 18 May 2000,2 and his account of how the Modern House of Tokelau project, in both its governance and its economic development dimensions, is seen by Tokelauans as the means to achieving its act of self-determination;
	5.	Welcomes the statement of the Council of Faipule of July 2000 that, following consultations in each village and a meeting of the General Fono in June 2000, full and overwhelming support has been given to the implementation of the project; 
	6.	Notes the confirmation by the Council of Faipule that in the twelve months from July 2000 there will be significant movement in implementing the project, in conjunction with New Zealand;
	7.	Acknowledges that New Zealand has committed substantial additional funding to the project in 2000-2001, and its intention to collaborate with Tokelau in ways that can produce a significant momentum;
	8.	Notes the changes being made in arrangements for the delivery of public services, within an environment in which the institution of the village is truly recognized as the foundation of the nation, and the expectation that the New Zealand State Services Commissioner may be able to withdraw from his role as employer of the Tokelau Public Service at a time to be set by mutual agreement when Tokelau has established a suitable local employment framework;
	9.	Also notes that the constitution of a self-governing Tokelau will continue to develop as a part and as a consequence of the building of the Modern House of Tokelau, and that both have national and international importance for Tokelau;
	10.	Acknowledges Tokelau's need for reassurance, given that local resources cannot adequately cover the material side of self-determination, and the ongoing responsibility of Tokelau's external partners to assist Tokelau in balancing its desire to be self-reliant to the greatest extent possible with its need for external assistance;
	11.	Notes the special challenge inherent in the situation of Tokelau, among the smallest of the small Territories, and how a Territory's exercise of its inalienable right to self-determination may be brought closer, as in the case of Tokelau, by the meeting of that challenge in innovative ways; 
	12.	Welcomes the assurance of the Government of New Zealand that it will meet its obligations to the United Nations with respect to Tokelau and abide by the freely expressed wishes of the people of Tokelau with regard to their future status; 
	13.	Calls upon the administering Power and United Nations agencies to continue their assistance to Tokelau, as it further develops its economy and governance structures within the context of its ongoing constitutional evolution;
	14.	Requests the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples to continue to examine the question and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session.
83rd plenary meeting
8 December 2000
1 A/55/23 (Part II), chap. XI. For the final text, see Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-fifth Session, Supplement No. 23.
2 A/55/23 (Part I), chap. II, annex, para. 30. For the final text, see Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-fifth Session, Supplement No. 23.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0056797E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/55/143<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

A/RES/55/143


A/RES/55/143


2
    

3
    

United NationsA/RES/55/143General AssemblyDistr.: General
22 February 2001Fifty-fifth session
Agenda item 18

00 56797

