[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 6 December 2007
[on the report of the Sixth Committee (A/62/451)]
62/67.	Diplomatic protection


	The General Assembly,
	Having considered chapter IV of the report of the International Law Commission on the work of its fifty-eighth session,1 which contains the draft articles on diplomatic protection,2 
	Noting that the Commission decided to recommend to the General Assembly the elaboration of a convention on the basis of the draft articles on diplomatic protection,3
	Emphasizing the continuing importance of the codification and progressive development of international law, as referred to in Article 13, paragraph 1 (a), of the Charter of the United Nations,
	Noting that the subject of diplomatic protection is of major importance in the relations of States,
	Taking into account the comments and observations of Governments4 and the discussion held in the Sixth Committee at the sixty-second session of the General Assembly on diplomatic protection,
	1.	Welcomes the conclusion of the work of the International Law Commission on diplomatic protection and its adoption of the draft articles and commentary on the topic;5
	2.	Expresses its appreciation to the Commission for its continuing contribution to the codification and progressive development of international law;
	3.	Commends the articles on diplomatic protection presented by the Commission, the text of which is annexed to the present resolution, to the attention of Governments, and invites them to submit in writing to the Secretary-General any further comments concerning the recommendation by the Commission to elaborate a convention on the basis of the articles;3
	4.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-fifth session an item entitled "Diplomatic protection" and to further examine, within the framework of a working group of the Sixth Committee, in light of the written comments of Governments, as well as views expressed in the debates held at the sixty-second session of the General Assembly, the question of a convention on diplomatic protection, or any other appropriate action, on the basis of the above-mentioned articles. 

62nd plenary meeting
6 December 2007


		Annex
Diplomatic protection
		Part one
General provisions

		Article 1
Definition and scope
	For the purposes of the present draft articles, diplomatic protection consists of the invocation by a State, through diplomatic action or other means of peaceful settlement, of the responsibility of another State for an injury caused by an internationally wrongful act of that State to a natural or legal person that is a national of the former State with a view to the implementation of such responsibility.

		Article 2
Right to exercise diplomatic protection
	A State has the right to exercise diplomatic protection in accordance with the present draft articles.

		Part two
Nationality

		Chapter I
General principles
		Article 3
Protection by the State of nationality
1.	The State entitled to exercise diplomatic protection is the State of nationality.
2.	Notwithstanding paragraph 1, diplomatic protection may be exercised by a State in respect of a person that is not its national in accordance with draft article 8.

		Chapter II
Natural persons
		Article 4
State of nationality of a natural person
	For the purposes of the diplomatic protection of a natural person, a State of nationality means a State whose nationality that person has acquired, in accordance with the law of that State, by birth, descent, naturalization, succession of States or in any other manner, not inconsistent with international law.

		Article 5
Continuous nationality of a natural person
1.	A State is entitled to exercise diplomatic protection in respect of a person who was a national of that State continuously from the date of injury to the date of the official presentation of the claim. Continuity is presumed if that nationality existed at both these dates.
2.	Notwithstanding paragraph 1, a State may exercise diplomatic protection in respect of a person who is its national at the date of the official presentation of the claim but was not a national at the date of injury, provided that the person had the nationality of a predecessor State or lost his or her previous nationality and acquired, for a reason unrelated to the bringing of the claim, the nationality of the former State in a manner not inconsistent with international law.
3.	Diplomatic protection shall not be exercised by the present State of nationality in respect of a person against a former State of nationality of that person for an injury caused when that person was a national of the former State of nationality and not of the present State of nationality.
4.	A State is no longer entitled to exercise diplomatic protection in respect of a person who acquires the nationality of the State against which the claim is brought after the date of the official presentation of the claim.

		Article 6
Multiple nationality and claim against a third State
1.	Any State of which a dual or multiple national is a national may exercise diplomatic protection in respect of that national against a State of which that person is not a national.
2.	Two or more States of nationality may jointly exercise diplomatic protection in respect of a dual or multiple national.

		Article 7
Multiple nationality and claim against a State of nationality
	A State of nationality may not exercise diplomatic protection in respect of a person against a State of which that person is also a national unless the nationality of the former State is predominant, both at the date of injury and at the date of the official presentation of the claim.

		Article 8
Stateless persons and refugees
1.	A State may exercise diplomatic protection in respect of a stateless person who, at the date of injury and at the date of the official presentation of the claim, is lawfully and habitually resident in that State.
2.	A State may exercise diplomatic protection in respect of a person who is recognized as a refugee by that State, in accordance with internationally accepted standards, when that person, at the date of injury and at the date of the official presentation of the claim, is lawfully and habitually resident in that State.
3.	Paragraph 2 does not apply in respect of an injury caused by an internationally wrongful act of the State of nationality of the refugee.

		Chapter III
Legal persons
		Article 9
State of nationality of a corporation
	For the purposes of the diplomatic protection of a corporation, the State of nationality means the State under whose law the corporation was incorporated. However, when the corporation is controlled by nationals of another State or States and has no substantial business activities in the State of incorporation, and the seat of management and the financial control of the corporation are both located in another State, that State shall be regarded as the State of nationality.

		Article 10
Continuous nationality of a corporation
1.	A State is entitled to exercise diplomatic protection in respect of a corporation that was a national of that State, or its predecessor State, continuously from the date of injury to the date of the official presentation of the claim. Continuity is presumed if that nationality existed at both these dates.
2.	A State is no longer entitled to exercise diplomatic protection in respect of a corporation that acquires the nationality of the State against which the claim is brought after the presentation of the claim.
3.	Notwithstanding paragraph 1, a State continues to be entitled to exercise diplomatic protection in respect of a corporation which was its national at the date of injury and which, as the result of the injury, has ceased to exist according to the law of the State of incorporation.

		Article 11
Protection of shareholders
	A State of nationality of shareholders in a corporation shall not be entitled to exercise diplomatic protection in respect of such shareholders in the case of an injury to the corporation unless:
	(a)	The corporation has ceased to exist according to the law of the State of incorporation for a reason unrelated to the injury; or
	(b)	The corporation had, at the date of injury, the nationality of the State alleged to be responsible for causing the injury, and incorporation in that State was required by it as a precondition for doing business there.

		Article 12
Direct injury to shareholders
	To the extent that an internationally wrongful act of a State causes direct injury to the rights of shareholders as such, as distinct from those of the corporation itself, the State of nationality of any such shareholders is entitled to exercise diplomatic protection in respect of its nationals.

		Article 13
Other legal persons
	The principles contained in this chapter shall be applicable, as appropriate, to the diplomatic protection of legal persons other than corporations.

		Part three
Local remedies

		Article 14
Exhaustion of local remedies
1.	A State may not present an international claim in respect of an injury to a national or other person referred to in draft article 8 before the injured person has, subject to draft article 15, exhausted all local remedies.
2.	"Local remedies" means legal remedies which are open to an injured person before the judicial or administrative courts or bodies, whether ordinary or special, of the State alleged to be responsible for causing the injury.
3.	Local remedies shall be exhausted where an international claim, or request for a declaratory judgement related to the claim, is brought preponderantly on the basis of an injury to a national or other person referred to in draft article 8.

		Article 15
Exceptions to the local remedies rule
	Local remedies do not need to be exhausted where:
	(a)	There are no reasonably available local remedies to provide effective redress, or the local remedies provide no reasonable possibility of such redress;
	(b)	There is undue delay in the remedial process which is attributable to the State alleged to be responsible;
	(c)	There was no relevant connection between the injured person and the State alleged to be responsible at the date of injury;
	(d)	The injured person is manifestly precluded from pursuing local remedies; or
	(e)	The State alleged to be responsible has waived the requirement that local remedies be exhausted.

		Part four
Miscellaneous provisions

		Article 16
Actions or procedures other than diplomatic protection
	The rights of States, natural persons, legal persons or other entities to resort under international law to actions or procedures other than diplomatic protection to secure redress for injury suffered as a result of an internationally wrongful act, are not affected by the present draft articles.

		Article 17
Special rules of international law
	The present draft articles do not apply to the extent that they are inconsistent with special rules of international law, such as treaty provisions for the protection of investments.

		Article 18
Protection of ships' crews
	The right of the State of nationality of the members of the crew of a ship to exercise diplomatic protection is not affected by the right of the State of nationality of a ship to seek redress on behalf of such crew members, irrespective of their nationality, when they have been injured in connection with an injury to the vessel resulting from an internationally wrongful act.

		Article 19
Recommended practice
	A State entitled to exercise diplomatic protection according to the present draft articles, should:
	(a)	Give due consideration to the possibility of exercising diplomatic protection, especially when a significant injury has occurred;
	(b)	Take into account, wherever feasible, the views of injured persons with regard to resort to diplomatic protection and the reparation to be sought; and
	(c)	Transfer to the injured person any compensation obtained for the injury from the responsible State subject to any reasonable deductions.
1 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-first Session, Supplement No. 10 (A/61/10).
2 Ibid., para. 49.
3 Ibid., para. 46.
4 A/62/118 and Add.1.
5 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-first Session, Supplement No. 10 (A/61/10), paras. 43 and 44.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0746779E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/62/67<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

2
    

2

United NationsA/RES/62/67General AssemblyDistr.: General
8 January 2008Sixty-second session
Agenda item 83

07-46779

A/RES/62/67

A/RES/62/67

6

2

