[COMMENT1]UNITED		A
NATIONS




         General Assembly

                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/54/160
                                                                          22 February 2000





Fifty-fourth session
Agenda item 116 (b)


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/54/605/Add.2)]


54/160.   Human rights and cultural diversity

    The General Assembly,

    Recalling the Universal Declaration of Human Rights1 and the relevant provisions of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,2 the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination3 and the Convention on the Rights of the Child,4

    Noting that numerous instruments within the United Nations system promote cultural diversity, as well as the conservation and development of culture, in particular the Declaration of the Principles of International Cultural Cooperation, proclaimed on 4 November 1966 by the General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization at its fourteenth session,5

    Welcoming the designation by the General Assembly, in its resolution 53/22 of 4 November 1998, of the year 2001 as the United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations,


    Reaffirming that all human rights are universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated and that the international community must treat human rights globally in a fair and equal manner, on the same footing and with the same emphasis, and that, while the significance of national and regional particularities and various historical, cultural and religious backgrounds must be borne in mind, it is the duty of States, regardless of their political, economic and cultural systems, to promote and protect all human rights and fundamental freedoms,

    Recognizing that cultural diversity and the pursuit of cultural development by all peoples and nations are a source of mutual enrichment for the cultural life of humankind,

    Considering that tolerance of cultural, ethnic and religious diversities is essential for peace, understanding and friendship among individuals and people of different cultures and nations of the world,

    Recognizing in each culture a dignity and value which deserves recognition, respect and preservation, and convinced also that in their rich variety and diversity, and in the reciprocal influences they exert on one another, all cultures form part of the common heritage belonging to all humankind,

    Convinced that the promotion of cultural pluralism, tolerance towards and dialogue among various cultures and civilizations would contribute to the efforts of all peoples and nations to enrich their cultures and traditions by engaging in a mutually beneficial exchange of knowledge and intellectual, moral and material achievements,

    1.	Affirms the importance for all peoples and nations to hold, develop and preserve their cultural heritage and traditions in a national and international atmosphere of peace, tolerance and mutual respect;

    2.	Recognizes that respect for cultural diversity and the cultural rights of all enhances cultural pluralism, contributing to a wider exchange of knowledge and understanding of cultural background, advancing the application and enjoyment of universally accepted human rights across the world and fostering stable friendly relations among peoples and nations worldwide;

    3.	Emphasizes that the promotion of cultural pluralism and tolerance at the national and international levels is important for enhancing respect for cultural rights and cultural diversity;

    4.	Calls upon States, international organizations and United Nations agencies, and invites civil society, including non-governmental organizations, for the purpose of advancing the objectives of peace, development and universally accepted human rights, to recognize and respect cultural diversity;

    5.	Requests the Secretary-General, in the light of the present resolution, to prepare a report on human rights and cultural diversity, taking into account the views of Member States, relevant United Nations agencies and non-governmental organizations, and to submit it to the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session;

    6.	Decides to continue consideration of this question at its fifty-fifth session under the sub-item entitled "Human rights questions, including alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms".

	83rd plenary meeting
	17 December 1999

1 Resolution 217 A (III).
2 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
3 Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.
4 Resolution 44/25, annex.
5 See United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Records of the General Conference, Fourteenth Session, Paris, 1966, Resolutions.
[COMMENT1]
<<ODS JOB NO>>N0026526E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/54/160<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------


00 26526	/...


00 26526	/...

A/RES/54/160
Page 2




	A/RES/54/160
	Page 








