[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 19 December 2014
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/69/468/Add.6)]
69/222.	Implementation of the Convention on Biological Diversity and its contribution to sustainable development


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 64/203 of 21 December 2009, 65/161 of 20 December 2010, 66/202 of 22 December 2011, 67/212 of 21 December 2012, 68/214 of 20 December 2013 and its previous resolutions relating to the Convention on Biological Diversity,1
	Recalling also the outcomes of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in June 1992,2 the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21,3 the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development4 and the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development (Johannesburg Plan of Implementation)5 and the outcome document of the special event to follow up efforts made towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals convened by the President of the General Assembly,6
	Recalling further its resolution 68/309 of 10 September 2014, in which it welcomed the report of the Open Working Group on Sustainable Development Goals7 and decided that the proposal of the Open Working Group contained in the report shall be the main basis for integrating sustainable development goals into the post-2015 development agenda, while recognizing that other inputs will also be considered, in the intergovernmental negotiation process at the sixty-ninth session of the General Assembly,
	Reaffirming the outcome document of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, entitled "The future we want",8 and, inter alia, the commitments concerning biodiversity contained therein,
	Reaffirming also the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development9 and its principles,
	Recalling that the objectives of the Convention, to be pursued in accordance with its relevant provisions, are the conservation of biological diversity, the sustainable use of its components and the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising out of the utilization of genetic resources, including by appropriate access to genetic resources, by appropriate transfer of relevant technologies, taking into account all rights over those resources and to technologies, and by appropriate funding,
	Reaffirming the intrinsic value of biological diversity as well as the ecological, genetic, social, economic, scientific, educational, cultural, recreational and aesthetic values of biological diversity and its critical role in maintaining ecosystems that provide essential services, which are critical foundations for sustainable development and human well-being,
	Recognizing that the achievement of the three objectives of the Convention is crucial for sustainable development, poverty eradication and the improvement of human well-being and a major factor underpinning the achievement of the internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals,
	Reaffirming that, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and the principles of international law, States have the sovereign right to exploit their own resources pursuant to their own environmental policies and the responsibility to ensure that activities within their jurisdiction or control do not cause damage to the environment of other States or of areas beyond the limits of national jurisdiction,
	Recalling that, in its resolution 65/161, the General Assembly declared 2011-2020 the United Nations Decade on Biodiversity, with a view to contributing to the implementation of the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity 2011-2020,10
	Recognizing that the traditional knowledge, innovations and practices of indigenous peoples and local communities make an important contribution to the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity and that their wider application can support social well-being and sustainable livelihoods,
	Taking note of the decision adopted by the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity at its twelfth meeting entitled "Article 8(j) and related provisions",11
	Recalling the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples12 and the outcome document of the high-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly known as the World Conference on Indigenous Peoples,13
	Recognizing the vital role that women play in the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity, and reaffirming the need for the full participation of women at all levels of policymaking and implementation for the conservation of biological diversity,
	Recognizing also the important role of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora,14 an international agreement that stands at the intersection between trade, the environment and development, promotes the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity, should contribute to tangible benefits for local people and ensures that no species entering into international trade is threatened with extinction, recognizing further the economic, social and environmental impacts of poaching and of illicit trafficking in wildlife, where firm and strengthened action needs to be taken on both the supply and demand sides, emphasizing in this regard the importance of effective international cooperation among relevant multilateral environmental agreements and international organizations, and further stressing the importance of basing the listing of species on agreed criteria,
	Noting the adoption by the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity, at its tenth meeting, of the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits Arising from Their Utilization to the Convention on Biological Diversity,15 and acknowledging the role of access to genetic resources and equitable benefit-sharing arising from their utilization in contributing to the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity, poverty eradication and environmental sustainability and, thereby, to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals,
	Noting also that 91 States and 1 regional economic integration organization have signed and that 56 States and 1 regional economic integration organization that are parties to the Convention have deposited their instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession to the Nagoya Protocol, and noting in this regard that the Protocol entered into force on 12 October 2014,
	Noting further that the Nagoya Protocol, the objective of which is the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from the utilization of genetic resources, including by appropriate access to genetic resources, by appropriate transfer of relevant technologies, taking into account all rights over those resources and to technologies, and by appropriate funding, contributes to the conservation of biological diversity and the sustainable use of its components;
	Noting that 50 States and 1 regional economic integration organization have signed and that 26 States and 1 regional economic integration organization that are parties to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety to the Convention on Biological Diversity16 have deposited their instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession to the Nagoya-Kuala Lumpur Supplementary Protocol on Liability and Redress to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety,17
	Noting also that 193 States and 1 regional economic integration organization are parties to the Convention and that 167 States and 1 regional economic integration organization are parties to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety,
	Recalling the adoption by the Conference of the Parties to the Convention at its ninth meeting of the strategy for resource mobilization in support of the achievement of the three objectives of the Convention,18 as well as decision X/3, adopted by the Conference of the Parties at its tenth meeting,19 on the review of its implementation, including the establishment of preliminary targets by the Conference of the Parties in its decision XI/4, adopted at its eleventh meeting,20
	Noting the outcomes of the twelfth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention, the seventh meeting of the Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Cartagena Protocol and the first meeting of the Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Nagoya Protocol, all held in Pyeongchang, Republic of Korea, in 2014,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Executive Secretary of the Convention on Biological Diversity;21
	2.	Notes with appreciation the entry into force of the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits Arising from Their Utilization to the Convention on Biological Diversity15 on 12 October 2014;
	3.	Takes note of the holding and outcomes of the twelfth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity, held in Pyeongchang, Republic of Korea, in 2014;22 
	4.	Takes note with appreciation of the Gangwon Declaration on Biodiversity for Sustainable Development, adopted at the high-level segment of the twelfth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention;
	5.	Encourages the respective parties, in close collaboration with relevant stakeholders, to take concrete measures towards achieving the objectives of the Convention on Biological Diversity1 and the Nagoya Protocol, requests the parties, in close collaboration with relevant stakeholders, to coherently and efficiently implement the obligations and commitments under the Convention and the Protocol, and in this regard emphasizes the need to comprehensively address at all levels the difficulties that impede their full implementation;
	6.	Recognizes that the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity can significantly contribute to disaster risk reduction and to reducing the adverse impacts of climate change, including by adding resilience to fragile ecosystems and making them less vulnerable;
	7.	Urges the parties to the Convention to facilitate the transfer of technology for the effective implementation of the Convention in accordance with its provisions, in this regard takes note of the strategy for the practical implementation of the programme of work on technology transfer and scientific and technical cooperation developed by the Ad Hoc Technical Expert Group on Technology Transfer and Scientific and Technological Cooperation, as well as of decision XI/2, entitled "Review of progress in implementation of national biodiversity strategies and action plans and related capacity-building support to parties",20 and also takes note of the relevant decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties at its twelfth meeting in this regard;
	8.	Notes with appreciation the efforts made by the secretariat of the Convention, parties to the Convention and the Global Environment Facility, as the financial mechanism of the Convention, in conjunction with United Nations funds and programmes and the specialized agencies, as well as other entities, in organizing capacity-building workshops to support countries in the updating of national biodiversity strategies and action plans, with a view to enhancing capacity and addressing the need for human, technical and financial resources to implement the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity 2011-202010 and the Aichi Biodiversity Targets adopted by the Conference of the Parties to the Convention at its tenth meeting,10 in particular for developing countries;
	9.	Urges parties to promote the mainstreaming of gender considerations in developing, implementing and revising their national and, where appropriate, regional biodiversity strategies and action plans and equivalent instruments in implementing the three objectives of the Convention;
	10.	Calls upon Governments and all stakeholders to take appropriate measures to mainstream consideration of the socioeconomic impacts and benefits of the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity and its components, as well as ecosystems that provide essential services, into relevant programmes and policies at all levels, in accordance with national legislation, circumstances and priorities;
	11.	Reaffirms the importance of continuing to pursue more efficient and coherent implementation of the three objectives of the Convention, and calls upon parties and stakeholders to strengthen international cooperation measures for the fulfilment of obligations contained in the Convention, including through addressing implementation gaps, in particular with regard to article 15 of the Convention;
	12.	Also reaffirms the importance of the achievement of the Aichi Biodiversity Targets and the implementation of the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity 2011-2020 by the parties to the Convention;
	13.	Recognizes that parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity have reiterated that resources, financial, human and technical, need to be mobilized from all sources, and that this should be balanced with the effective implementation of the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity 2011-2020, stresses the need for further consideration of the evaluation of all resources mobilized in terms of the biodiversity outcomes achieved, and in this regard welcomes the decision of the parties to the Convention on an overall substantial increase in total biodiversity-related funding for the implementation of the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity 2011-2020 from a variety of sources, including national and international resource mobilization, international cooperation and the exploration of new and innovative financial mechanisms, and takes note of the decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties at its twelfth meeting in this regard;
	14.	Invites countries that have not yet done so to ratify or accede to the Convention;
	15.	Invites parties to the Convention to ratify or accede to the Nagoya Protocol, and invites the Executive Secretary and the Global Environment Facility, within its mandate as the financial mechanism of the Convention, in collaboration with relevant organizations, to continue supporting capacity-building and development activities to support the ratification and implementation of the Protocol;
	16.	Takes note of the work done by the Ad Hoc Open-ended Intersessional Working Group on Article 8 (j) and Related Provisions, and in this regard invites the secretariat of the Convention, through the Secretary-General, to report on the progress made when reporting on the implementation of the present resolution to the General Assembly at its seventieth session;
	17.	Stresses the importance of continued consideration of the issue of biodiversity, and encourages Member States and all stakeholders to give due consideration to this issue in the elaboration of the post-2015 development agenda;
	18.	Takes note of the second plenary meeting of the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services, which aims to provide the best available policy-relevant information on biodiversity to assist decision makers;
	19.	Stresses the importance of the engagement of the private sector and other stakeholders in the implementation of the three objectives of the Convention and in the achievement of the biodiversity targets, invites them to align their policies and practices more explicitly with the objectives of the Convention, including through partnerships, in accordance with national legislation, circumstances and priorities, and in this regard stresses the importance of the ongoing work of the Global Partnership on Business and Biodiversity;
	20.	Notes the ongoing work of the Joint Liaison Group of the secretariats and offices of the relevant subsidiary bodies of the Convention on Biological Diversity, the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa,23 and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change24 (the Rio conventions) and the Liaison Group of Biodiversity-related Conventions, acknowledges the importance of improving coherence in the implementation of those conventions, recognizes the importance of enhancing synergies among the biodiversity-related conventions, without prejudice to their specific objectives, and encourages the conferences of the parties to the biodiversity-related multilateral environmental agreements to consider strengthening efforts in this regard, taking into account relevant experiences and bearing in mind the respective independent legal status and mandates of those instruments;
	21.	Invites the secretariat of the Convention to report, through the Secretary-General, at its seventieth session, on the implementation of the present resolution, including progress in the implementation of the Convention and the Aichi Biodiversity Targets, and on difficulties encountered in the process of their implementation;
	22.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its seventieth session, under the item entitled "Sustainable development", the sub-item entitled "Convention on Biological Diversity".

75th plenary meeting
19 December 2014

1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1760, No. 30619.
2 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992, vol. I, Resolutions Adopted by the Conference (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum), resolution 1, annexes I and II.
3 Resolution S-19/2, annex.
4 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
5 Ibid., resolution 2, annex.
6 Resolution 68/6.
7 A/68/970 and Corr.1.
8 Resolution 66/288, annex.
9 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992, vol. I, Resolutions Adopted by the Conference (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum), resolution 1, annex I.
10 United Nations Environment Programme, document UNEP/CBD/COP/10/27, annex, decision X/2.
11 United Nations Environment Programme, document UNEP/CBD/COP/12/29, decision XII/12.
12 Resolution 61/295, annex.
13 Resolution 69/2.
14 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 993, No. 14537.
15 United Nations Environment Programme, document UNEP/CBD/COP/10/27, annex, decision X/1.
16 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2226, No. 30619.
17 United Nations Environment Programme, document UNEP/CBD/BS/COP-MOP/5/17, annex, decision BS-V/11.
18 See United Nations Environment Programme, document UNEP/CBD/COP/9/29, annex I, decision IX/11.
19 See United Nations Environment Programme, document UNEP/CBD/COP/10/27, annex.
20 See United Nations Environment Programme, document UNEP/CBD/COP/11/35, annex I.
21 A/69/317, sect. III.
22 United Nations Environment Programme, document UNEP/CBD/COP/12/29.
23 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1954, No. 33480.
24 Ibid., vol. 1771, No. 30822.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1471322E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/69/222<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/69/222General AssemblyDistr.: General
12 February 2015Sixty-ninth session
Agenda item 19 (f)

14-67795 (E)
*1467795*Please recycle 

A/RES/69/222Implementation of the Convention on Biological Diversity
and its contribution to sustainable development

Implementation of the Convention on Biological Diversity
and its contribution to sustainable developmentA/RES/69/222

6/6

5/6

