<<ODS JOB NO>>N9776891E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/51/80<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>

UNITED						A
NATIONS



			General Assembly


									Distr.
									GENERAL

									A/RES/51/80
									25 February 1997







Fifty-first session
Agenda item 108


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/51/617)]


51/80.International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination


	The General Assembly,

	Recalling its previous resolutions concerning the reports of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination and its resolutions on the status of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,1 

	Reiterating the importance of the Convention, which is one of the most widely accepted human rights instruments adopted under the auspices of the United Nations,

	Reiterating once again the need to intensify the struggle for the elimination of all forms of racism and racial discrimination throughout the world, especially its most brutal forms,

	Aware of the importance of the contributions of the Committee to the efforts of the United Nations to combat racism and all other forms of discrimination based on race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin,

	Emphasizing the obligation of all States parties to the Convention to take legislative, judicial and other measures to secure full implementation of the provisions of the Convention,


	Expressing its satisfaction at the entry into force on 3 December 1982 of the competence of the Committee to receive and consider communications from individuals or groups of individuals under article 14 of the Convention,

	Bearing in mind the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993,2 in particular section II. B. relating to equality, dignity and tolerance, and General Assembly resolution 50/201 of 22 December 1995, in particular paragraph 9 thereof,

	Recalling its resolution 47/111 of 16 December 1992, in which it welcomed the decision, taken on 15 January 1992 at the Fourteenth Meeting of States Parties to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, to amend paragraph 6 of article 8 of the Convention and to add a new paragraph, as paragraph 7 of article 8, with a view to providing for the financing of the Committee from the regular budget of the United Nations, and concerned that an amendment to the Convention has not yet entered into force,

	Welcoming efforts of the Secretary-General to ensure interim financial arrangements for the financing of the expenses incurred by the Committee,

	Recalling the provisions of paragraph 4 of article 10 of the Convention regarding the location of the meetings of the Committee,

	Stressing the importance of enabling the Committee to function smoothly and to have all necessary facilities for the effective performance of its functions under the Convention,

	I

Report of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination

	1.	Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination on the work of its forty-eighth and forty-ninth sessions;3 

	2.	Commends the Committee for its work with regard to the implementation of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination;

	3.	Calls upon States parties to fulfil their obligation, under paragraph 1 of article 9 of the Convention, to submit in due time their periodic reports on measures taken to implement the Convention;

	4.	Commends the Committee on its working methods, including its procedure for reviewing the implementation of the Convention in States whose initial and periodic reports are overdue and the formulating of concluding observations on reports of States parties to the Convention;

	5.	Commends the Committee for its contribution to the prevention of racial discrimination, including early warning measures and urgent procedures, and welcomes its relevant action thereon;

	6.	Encourages the Committee to contribute fully to the implementation of the Third Decade to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination and its revised Programme of Action,4 including by the continued collaboration between the Committee and the Subcommission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities;

	7.	Welcomes the cooperation and exchange of information between the Committee and relevant structures and mechanisms of the United Nations, including the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, as well as the process of establishing liaisons with other international organizations;

	II

Financial situation of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination

	8.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the financial situation of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination;5 

	9.	Expresses its profound concern at the fact that a number of States parties to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination have still not fulfilled their financial obligations, as shown in the report of the Secretary-General, and strongly appeals to all States parties which are in arrears to fulfil their outstanding financial obligations under paragraph 6 of article 8 of the Convention;

	10.	Urges States parties to accelerate their domestic ratification procedures with regard to the amendment to the Convention regarding the financing of the Committee and expeditiously to notify the Secretary-General in writing of their agreement to the amendment, as decided upon at the Fourteenth Meeting of States Parties to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination on 15 January 1992, endorsed by the General Assembly in its resolution 47/111 of 16 December 1992 and further reiterated at the Sixteenth Meeting of States Parties on 16 January 1996;

	11.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue to ensure adequate financial arrangements and appropriate means to ensure the functioning of the Committee;

	12.	Requests the Secretary-General to invite those States parties that are in arrears to pay the amounts in arrears and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its fifty-second session;

	13.	Decides to consider at its fifty-second session, under the item entitled "Elimination of racism and racial discrimination", the report of the Secretary-General on the financial situation of the Committee and the report of the Committee;


	III

Status of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination

	14.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the status of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination;6 

	15.	Expresses its satisfaction at the number of States that have ratified the Convention or acceded thereto;

	16.	Reaffirms once again its conviction that ratification of or accession to the Convention on a universal basis and implementation of its provisions are necessary for the realization of the objectives of the Third Decade to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination and for action beyond the Decade;

	17.	Requests those States that have not yet become parties to the Convention to ratify it or accede thereto;

	18.	Encourages States to limit the extent of any reservation they lodge to the Convention and to formulate any reservation as precisely and as narrowly as possible while ensuring that no reservation is incompatible with the object and purpose of the Convention or otherwise contrary to international law;

	19.	Requests the States parties to the Convention that have not yet done so to consider the possibility of making the declaration provided for in article 14 of the Convention;

	20.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-third session a report concerning the status of the Convention, in accordance with resolution 2106 A (XX) of 21 December 1965.


	82nd plenary meeting
	12 December 1996
     1 Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.
     2 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
     3 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-first Session, Supplement No. 18 (A/51/18).
     4 Resolution 49/146, annex.
     5 A/51/430.
     6 A/51/435.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------



 

 


97-76891	/...


97-76891	/...

A/RES/51/80
Page 1



	A/RES/51/80
	Page 1




97-76891	/...


97-76891	/...

A/RES/51/80
Page 2



	A/RES/51/80
	Page 2




	/...


	/...

A/RES/51/80
Page 4



	A/RES/51/80
	Page 4







