[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly

[on the report of the Third Committee (A/55/596)]
55/71.	Follow-up to the Fourth World Conference on Women and full implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 50/203 of 22 December 1995, 51/69 of 12 December 1996, 52/100 of 12 December 1997, 53/120 of 9 December 1998 and 54/141 of 17 December 1999,
	Welcoming the outcome of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly, entitled "Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the twenty-first century", namely the "Political declaration"1 and "Further actions and initiatives to implement the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action",2
	Stressing the importance of the outcome of the twenty-third special session, which has assessed the implementation of the Beijing Declaration3 and Platform for Action,4 identified obstacles and challenges thereto and proposed actions and initiatives to overcome them and achieve full and accelerated implementation,
	Deeply convinced that the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session are important contributions to the advancement of women worldwide in the achievement of gender equality and must be translated into effective action by all States, the United Nations system and other organizations concerned, as well as by non-governmental organizations,
	Stressing the importance of strong, sustained political will and commitment at the national, regional and international levels in order to achieve full and accelerated implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session,
	Recognizing that the responsibility for the implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session rests primarily at the national level and that strengthened efforts are necessary in this respect, and reiterating that enhanced international cooperation is essential for the effective implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session,
	1.	Reaffirms the commitments contained in the "Political declaration"1 and "Further actions and initiatives to implement the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action",2 adopted by the General Assembly at its twenty-third special session, entitled "Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the twenty-first century";
	2.	Takes note with appreciation of the reports of the Secretary-General on the follow-up to the Fourth World Conference on Women and full implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action5 and on the implementation of the outcome of the Fourth World Conference on Women and of the special session of the General Assembly entitled "Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the twenty-first century";6
	3.	Calls upon Governments, the relevant entities of the United Nations system within their respective mandates and all other relevant actors of civil society, including non-governmental organizations, to take effective action to achieve full and effective implementation of the Beijing Declaration3 and Platform for Action4 and the outcome of the twenty-third special session, as elaborated in the above-mentioned documents;
	4.	Calls upon Governments, in collaboration with relevant actors of civil society, including non-governmental organizations, to facilitate the translation and dissemination of the outcome of the twenty-third special session, as broadly and as accessibly as possible;
	5.	Strongly encourages Governments to continue to support the role and contribution of civil society, in particular non-governmental organizations and women's organizations, in the implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session;
	6.	Reaffirms further its decision that the General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council and the Commission on the Status of Women, in accordance with their respective mandates and with General Assembly resolution 48/162 of 20 December 1993 and other relevant resolutions, constitute a three-tiered intergovernmental mechanism that plays the primary role in the overall policy-making and follow-up and in coordinating the implementation and monitoring of the Beijing Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session;
	7.	Invites the Economic and Social Council to continue to promote a coordinated and integrated follow-up to and implementation of the outcomes of major United Nations conferences and summits and their reviews, and requests the Council to intensify further its efforts to ensure that gender mainstreaming is an integral part of all its activities concerning integrated and coordinated follow-up to United Nations conferences, building upon agreed conclusions 1997/2 adopted by the Council on 18 July 1997;7
	8.	Also invites the Council to continue to further policy coordination and inter-agency cooperation towards the achievement of the objectives of the Beijing Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session, including by considering the dedication of specific segments of the Council to the advancement of women and implementation of the above-mentioned documents and by mainstreaming a gender perspective in all its work;
	9.	Encourages the Council to request the regional commissions, within their respective mandates and resources, to build up a database, to be updated regularly, in which all programmes and projects carried out in their respective regions by agencies or organizations of the United Nations system are listed, and to facilitate their dissemination, as well as the evaluation of their impact on the empowerment of women through the implementation of the Beijing Platform for Action;
	10.	Reaffirms that the Commission on the Status of Women has a central role in assisting the Council in monitoring, assessing progress made in and accelerating, within the United Nations system, the implementation of the Beijing Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session, and in advising the Council thereon;
	11.	Notes that, at its forty-fifth session, in 2001, the Commission will develop a new multi-year programme of work, and in this respect requests the Secretary-General to report to the Commission with recommendations for the effective implementation of the Beijing Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session, including by enhancing the effectiveness of its work and its catalytic role in mainstreaming a gender perspective in United Nations activities;
	12.	Recognizes the importance attached to the regional and subregional monitoring of the global and regional platforms for action and of the implementation of the outcome of the twenty-third special session by regional commissions and other regional or subregional structures, within their mandates, in consultation with Governments, and calls for the promotion of further cooperation in that respect among Governments and, where appropriate, national machineries of the same region;
	13.	Reaffirms that, in order to implement the Beijing Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session, adequate mobilization of resources at the national and international levels, as well as new and additional resources for the developing countries, in particular those in Africa and the least developed countries, from all available funding mechanisms, including multilateral, bilateral and private sources, will also be required;
	14.	Recognizes that the implementation of the Beijing Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session in the countries with economies in transition requires continued national efforts and international cooperation and assistance;
	15.	Reaffirms that in order to implement the Beijing Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session a reformulation of policies and reallocation of resources may be needed, but that some policy changes may not necessarily have financial implications;
	16.	Also reaffirms that in order to ensure the effective implementation of the strategic objectives of the Beijing Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session, the United Nations system should promote an active and visible policy of mainstreaming a gender perspective, including through the work of the Special Adviser on Gender Issues and Advancement of Women and through the maintenance of gender units and focal points;
	17.	Further reaffirms that United Nations bodies that focus on gender issues, such as the United Nations Population Fund, the United Nations Development Fund for Women and the International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women, have an important role to play in the implementation of the objectives of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session;
	18.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the General Assembly on the full range of tasks of the Division for the Advancement of Women of the Department of Economic and Social Affairs of the Secretariat, including those that might arise from the implementation of the outcome of the twenty-third special session and from the entry into force of the Optional Protocol8 to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,9 with a view to ensuring that the Division can effectively fulfil its tasks;
	19.	Also requests the Secretary-General to ensure that all United Nations personnel and officials at Headquarters and in the field, especially in field operations, receive training so that they mainstream a gender perspective in their work, including gender impact analysis, and to ensure appropriate follow-up to such training;
	20.	Requests all bodies that deal with programme and budgetary matters, including the Committee for Programme and Coordination, to ensure that all programmes, medium-term plans and programme budgets visibly mainstream a gender perspective;
	21.	Invites States parties to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women to include information on measures taken to implement the outcome of the twenty-third special session, as well as the Beijing Platform for Action, in their reports to the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women under article 18 of the Convention;
	22.	Requests the Secretary-General to disseminate the outcome of the twenty-third special session as widely as possible in all official languages of the United Nations;
	23.	Also requests the Secretary-General to report annually to the General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council and the Commission on the Status of Women on follow-up to and progress in the implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the outcome of the twenty-third special session;
	24.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-sixth session an item entitled "Implementation of the outcome of the Fourth World Conference on Women and of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly, entitled 'Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the twenty-first century'".

81st plenary meeting
4 December 2000
1 Resolution S-23/2, annex.
2 Resolution S-23/3, annex.
3 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
4 Ibid., annex II.
5 A/55/293.
6 A/55/341.
7 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-second Session, Supplement No. 3 (A/52/3/Rev.1), chap. IV, para. 4.
8 Resolution 54/4, annex.
9 Resolution 34/180, annex.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0056365E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/55/71<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

A/RES/55/71


A/RES/55/71


4
    

5
    

United NationsA/RES/55/71General AssemblyDistr.: General
8 February 2001Fifty-fifth session
Agenda item 108

00 56365

