[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 22 December 2005
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/60/488/Add.1)]
60/193.	Implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the 
Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the outcomes 
of the World Summit on Sustainable Development


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 55/199 of 20 December 2000, 56/226 of 24 December 2001, 57/253 of 20 December 2002 and 57/270 A and B of 20 December 2002 and 23 June 2003, respectively, and its resolutions 58/218 of 23 December 2003 and 59/227 of 22 December 2004, 
	Recalling also the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development,1 Agenda 21,2 the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21,3 the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development4 and the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation"),5 as well as the Monterrey Consensus of the International Conference on Financing for Development,6
	Reaffirming the commitment to implement Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21, the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation, including the time-bound goals and targets, and the other internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration,7 and reaffirmed in the 2005 World Summit Outcome,8
	Recalling the 2005 World Summit Outcome,
	Reaffirming the decisions taken at the eleventh session of the Commission on Sustainable Development,
	Reaffirming also the continuing need to ensure a balance among economic development, social development and environmental protection as interdependent and mutually reinforcing pillars of sustainable development, 
	Reiterating that the Commission is the high-level body responsible for sustainable development within the United Nations system and serves as a forum for consideration of issues related to integration of the three dimensions of sustainable development,
	Reaffirming that eradicating poverty, changing unsustainable patterns of production and consumption and protecting and managing the natural resource base of economic and social development are overarching objectives of and essential requirements for sustainable development, 
	Recognizing that good governance within each country and at the international level is essential for sustainable development, 
	Recognizing also that eradicating poverty is the greatest global challenge facing the world today and an indispensable requirement for sustainable development, particularly for developing countries, and that although each country has the primary responsibility for its own sustainable development and poverty eradication and the role of national policies and development strategies cannot be overemphasized, concerted and concrete measures are required at all levels to enable developing countries to achieve their sustainable development goals as related to the internationally agreed poverty-related targets and goals, including those contained in Agenda 21, the relevant outcomes of other United Nations conferences and the Millennium Declaration, 
	Recalling the decision taken bythe Commission at its thirteenth session9 to devote one day of its review sessions to the review of the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,10 focusing on that year's thematic cluster, as well as on any new developments regarding the sustainable development efforts of small island developing States using existing modalities,
	Recalling also the decision of the Commission to request its secretariat to update the policy options and practical measures contained in the Chairman's summary of the interactive discussions held at the Intergovernmental Preparatory Meeting, on a regular basis, so as to make it a living document, and to develop web-based tools to disseminate information on implementation and best practices,9
	Looking forward to the upcoming cycles of the work programme of the Commission as adopted at its eleventh session and their contributions to the further implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the outcomes of the World Summit on Sustainable Development,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the activities undertaken in the implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the outcomes of the World Summit on Sustainable Development;11
	2.	Notes that the Commission on Sustainable Development at its thirteenth session adopted policy decisions on options and practical measures aimed at accelerating progress in implementation in the areas of water, sanitation and human settlements;9
	3.	Reiterates that sustainable development is a key element of the overarching framework for United Nations activities, in particular for achieving the internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration7 and in the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation");5
	4.	Calls upon Governments, all relevant international and regional organizations, the Economic and Social Council, the United Nations funds and programmes, the regional commissions and the specialized agencies, the international financial institutions, the Global Environment Facility and other intergovernmental organizations, in accordance with their respective mandates, as well as major groups, to take action to ensure the effective implementation of and follow-up to the commitments, programmes and time-bound targets adopted at the World Summit on Sustainable Development, and encourages them to report on concrete progress in that regard;
	5.	Calls for the effective implementation of the commitments, programmes and time-bound targets adopted at the World Summit on Sustainable Development and for the fulfilment of the provisions relating to the means of implementation, as contained in the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation;
	6.	Encourages Governments to participate at the appropriate level with representatives, including ministers, from the relevant departments and organizations working in the areas of energy for sustainable development, industrial development, air pollution/atmosphere and climate change, as well as finance, in the fourteenth session of the Commission;
	7.	Recalls the decision of the Commission at its eleventh session to invite the regional commissions, in collaboration with the secretariat of the Commission, to consider organizing regional implementation meetings in order to contribute to the work of the Commission,12 and, in this regard, welcomes the activities undertaken by the regional commissions and the secretariat of the Commission to organize the regional implementation meetings in preparation for the fourteenth session of the Commission, and looks forward to their contributions, based on the discussions in the intergovernmental regional implementation meetings, to the preparation of the fourteenth session;
	8.	Also recalls the decision of the Commission at its eleventh session13 that activities during Commission meetings should provide for the balanced involvement of participants from all regions, as well as for gender balance;
	9.	Invites donor countries to consider supporting the participation of experts from the developing countries in the areas of energy for sustainable development, industrial development, air pollution/atmosphere and climate change in the fourteenth session of the Commission; 
	10.	Reaffirms the objective of strengthening the implementation of Agenda 21,2 including through the mobilization of financial and technological resources, as well as capacity-building programmes, particularly for developing countries;
	11.	Also reaffirms the objective of enhancing the participation and effective involvement of civil society and other relevant stakeholders in the implementation of Agenda 21, as well as to promote transparency and broad public participation;
	12.	Further reaffirms the need to promote corporate responsibility and accountability as envisaged by the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation; 
	13.	Reaffirms the need to promote the development of microenterprises and small- and medium-sized enterprises, including by means of training, education and skill enhancement, with a special focus on agro-industry as a provider of livelihoods for rural communities;
	14.	Requests the secretariat of the Commission to make arrangements to facilitate the balanced representation of major groups from developed and developing countries in the sessions of the Commission;
	15.	Also requests the secretariat of the Commission to coordinate the participation of the relevant major groups in the discussions at the fourteenth session of the Commission;
	16.	Requests the Secretary-General, in reporting to the Commission at its fourteenth session on the state of the implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 213 and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation, on the basis of appropriate inputs from all levels, to submit thematic reports on the thematic cluster of issues for the fourteenth session of the Commission, in accordance with the decisions taken by the Commission at its eleventh session;
	17.	Also requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the Commission, at its review session,on progress and obstacles in respect of sustainable development in small island developing States, including recommendations on how to enhance the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,10 focusing on that year's thematic cluster;
	18.	Encourages Governments and organizations at all levels, as well as major groups, including the scientific community and educators, to undertake results-oriented initiatives and activities to support the work of the Commission and to promote and facilitate the implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation, including through voluntary multi-stakeholder partnership initiatives;
	19.	Notes the convening of the Second International Expert Meeting on the Ten-year Framework of Programmes for Sustainable Consumption and Production in San José, Costa Rica, from 5 to 8 September 2005;
	20.	Also notes the work in inter-agency cooperation and coordination undertaken in the follow-up to the World Summit on Sustainable Development, and requests the Secretary-General to report, at its sixty-first session, on action taken by the United Nations system in the thematic areas being addressed by the Commission in its current two-year cycle, with a view to facilitating an in-depth consideration of system-wide inter-agency cooperation and coordination in the relevant thematic areas, in accordance with the mandates agreed upon in the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation; 
	21.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-first session the item entitled "Implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the outcomes of the World Summit on Sustainable Development", and requests the Secretary-General, at that session, to submit a report on the implementation of the present resolution. 

68th plenary meeting
22 December 2005
1 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992, vol.I, Resolutions Adopted by the Conference (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum), resolution 1, annex I.
2 Ibid., annex II.
3 Resolution S-19/2, annex.
4 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
5 Ibid., resolution 2, annex.
6 Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico, 18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
7 See resolution 55/2.
8 See resolution 60/1.
9 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2005, Supplement No. 9 (E/2005/29), chap. I, sect. C, resolution 13/1.
10 Report of the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Port Louis, Mauritius, 10-14 January 2005 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.05.II.A.4 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
11 A/60/261 and Corr.1.
12 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2003, Supplement No. 9 (E/2003/29), chap. I, sect. A, draft resolution I entitled "Future programme, organization and methods of work of the Commission on Sustainable Development", para. 3 (a); see also Economic and Social Council resolution 2003/61 of 25 July 2003.
13 Ibid., para. 2 (j).
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0549918E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/60/193<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/60/193General AssemblyDistr.: General
20 February 2006Sixtieth session
Agenda item 52 (a)

05-49918

A/RES/60/193

A/RES/60/193

2

3

