[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 20 December 2004
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/59/497)]
59/167.	Elimination of all forms of violence against women, including crimes identified in the outcome document of 
the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly, entitled "Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the twenty-first century"


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, which, inter alia, calls for international cooperation in promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion,
	Recalling also the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,1 the Declaration on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women,2 the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women,3 the United Nations Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,4 the Beijing Declaration5 and Platform for Action6 adopted by the Fourth World Conference on Women, the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted on 25 June 1993 by the World Conference on Human Rights7 and the United Nations Millennium Declaration,8
	Recalling further its resolution 57/181 of 18 December 2002 and the agreed conclusions adopted by the Commission on the Status of Women at its forty-eighth session on 12 March 2004,9
	Reaffirming the obligations of all States to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, as enunciated in the Charter, and reaffirming also the obligations of States parties under international human rights instruments, in particular the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,10 the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,10 the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,11 the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,12 the Convention on the Rights of the Child,13 the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment14 and the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families,15
	Reaffirming also the outcome document of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly, entitled "Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the twenty-first century",16
	Reaffirming further the call for the elimination of violence against women and girls, especially all forms of commercial sexual exploitation as well as economic exploitation, including trafficking in women and children, female infanticide, crimes committed in the name of honour, crimes committed in the name of passion, racially motivated crimes, the abduction and sale of children, dowry-related violence and deaths, acid attacks and harmful traditional or customary practices, such as female genital mutilation and early and forced marriage,
	Stressing the importance of the empowerment of women as a tool to eliminate all forms of violence against women, including crimes identified in the outcome document of the twenty-third special session,
	1.	Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General;17
	2.	Expresses deep concern at the persistence of various forms of violence and crimes against women in all parts of the world, especially all forms of commercial sexual exploitation as well as economic exploitation, including trafficking in women and children, female infanticide, crimes committed in the name of honour, crimes committed in the name of passion, racially motivated crimes, the abduction and sale of children, dowry-related violence and deaths, acid attacks and harmful traditional or customary practices, such as female genital mutilation and early and forced marriage;
	3.	Stresses that all forms of violence against women, including crimes identified in the outcome document of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly,16 are obstacles to the advancement and empowerment of women, and reaffirms that violence against women both violates and impairs or nullifies the enjoyment by women of their human rights and fundamental freedoms;
	4.	Also stresses the need to treat all forms of violence against women and girls of all ages as a criminal offence punishable by law, including violence based on all forms of discrimination;
	5.	Welcomes specific legal and comprehensive legislative measures being enacted or contemplated, in particular with regard to various forms of violence against women and girls;
	6.	Also welcomes in this regard the launching of various initiatives, strategies and action plans aimed at, among other things, eradication, prevention, promotion, information, legislation, protection and welfare, education and research, enhancement of the economic capacity of women and the monitoring of the various forms of violence against women;
	7.	Reaffirms that there is increased awareness of and commitment to preventing and combating violence against women, including crimes identified in the outcome document of the twenty-third special session, welcomes in this context various legal, administrative and other measures taken by Governments for their prevention and elimination, and calls for high priority to be attached to the further strengthening of such measures;
	8.	Urges Member States to strengthen awareness and preventive measures for the elimination of all forms of violence against women, whether occurring in public or private life, by encouraging and supporting public campaigns to enhance awareness about the unacceptability and the social costs of violence against women, inter alia, through educational and media campaigns in cooperation with educators, community leaders and the electronic and print media;
	9.	Calls upon States to encourage and support the active participation of men and boys in the prevention and elimination of all forms of violence, especially gender-based violence, and to increase the awareness of men and boys of their responsibility in ending violence against women;
	10.	Expresses its appreciation of the work being done by non-governmental organizations, including women's organizations, community-based organizations and individuals, in raising awareness about the economic, social and psychological costs of all forms of violence against women, including crimes identified in the outcome document of the twenty-third special session, and in this regard encourages Governments to continue their support for the work of the non-governmental organizations in addressing this issue;
	11.	Calls upon States to fulfil their obligations under the relevant human rights instruments and to implement the Beijing Platform for Action6 as well as the outcome document of the twenty-third special session;
	12.	Encourages States parties to include in their reports to the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women and other relevant treaty bodies, wherever possible, sex-disaggregated data and information on measures taken or initiated to eliminate all forms of violence against women, including crimes identified in the outcome document of the twenty-third special session;
	13.	Urges relevant entities of the United Nations system, within their mandates, to assist countries, upon their request, in their efforts to prevent and eliminate all forms of violence against women, including crimes identified in the outcome document of the twenty-third special session, and in this regard expresses its appreciation of the work being done by the United Nations Population Fund, the United Nations Children's Fund and the United Nations Development Fund for Women and other relevant funds and programmes aimed at preventing and eliminating violence against women and girls;
	14.	Invites the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on violence against women, its causes and consequences to further devote equal attention to all forms of violence against women, including crimes identified in the outcome document of the twenty-third special session, in her work and her reports, within her mandate, to the Commission on Human Rights and the General Assembly;
	15.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit a comprehensive report on this matter to the General Assembly at its sixtieth session.

74th plenary meeting
20 December 2004
1 Resolution 217 A (III).
2 See resolution 2263 (XXII).
3 See resolution 48/104.
4 See resolution 1904 (XVIII).
5 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
6 Ibid., annex II.
7 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
8 See resolution 55/2.
9 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2004, Supplement No. 7 (E/2004/27), chap. I, sect. A; see also Economic and Social Council resolutions 2004/11 and 2004/12.
10 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
11 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1249, No. 20378.
12 Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.
13 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1577, No. 27531.
14 Ibid., vol. 1465, No. 24841.
15 Resolution 45/158, annex.
16 Resolution S-23/3, annex.
17 A/59/281.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0448628E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/59/167<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

4
    

3

United NationsA/RES/59/167General AssemblyDistr.: General
22 February 2005Fifty-ninth session
Agenda item 99

04-48628

A/RES/59/167

A/RES/59/167

2

3

