[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 21 December 2012
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/67/437/Add.3)]
67/209.	International Strategy for Disaster Reduction
The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 54/219 of 22 December 1999, 56/195 of 21 December 2001, 60/195 of 22 December 2005, 64/200 of 21 December 2009, 65/157 of 20 December 2010 and 66/199 of 22 December 2011, and taking into consideration all other relevant resolutions, 
	Reaffirming the outcome document of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, entitled "The future we want",1 in particular the decisions related to disaster risk reduction, 
	Recalling the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development,2 Agenda 21,3 the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21,4 the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development5 and the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development (Johannesburg Plan of Implementation)6 and the outcome document of the high-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly on the Millennium Development Goals,7 
	Stressing the importance of stronger interlinkages among disaster risk reduction, recovery and long-term development planning, calling for more coordinated and comprehensive strategies that integrate disaster risk reduction and climate change adaptation considerations into public and private investment, decision-making and the planning of humanitarian and development actions in order to reduce risk, increase resilience and provide a smoother transition between relief, recovery and development, and in this regard recognizing the need to integrate a gender perspective into the design and implementation of all phases of disaster risk management, 
	Recalling the results of the midterm review of the Hyogo Framework for Action 2005-2015: Building the Resilience of Nations and Communities to Disasters,8
	Recognizing that the Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction was confirmed, at its third session, held in Geneva from 8 to 13 May 2011, as being the main forum at the global level for strategic advice coordination and partnership development for disaster risk reduction, 
	Welcoming the special report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change on managing the risks of extreme events and disasters to advance climate change adaptation, issued in Geneva in March 2012, 
	Emphasizing the added value of Governments, at all levels, as well as relevant subregional, regional and international organizations, in committing adequate, timely and predictable resources for disaster risk reduction in order to enhance resilience of cities and communities to disasters, according to their own circumstances and capacities, 
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of General Assembly resolution 66/199;9 
	2.	Stresses the importance of the continued substantive consideration of the issue of disaster risk reduction, and encourages Member States and the relevant United Nations bodies to take into consideration the important role of disaster risk reduction activities for, inter alia, the achievement of sustainable development; 
	3.	Reaffirms the commitment to the Hyogo Framework for Action 
2005-2015: Building the Resilience of Nations and Communities to Disasters,8 and calls upon States, the United Nations system, international financial institutions, subregional, regional and international organizations and civil society to accelerate implementation of the Hyogo Framework for Action and the achievement of its goals; 
	4.	Encourages Member States, in accordance with their national priorities, to establish and develop national disaster loss databases, disaster risk mapping and financial tracking systems in order to support decision-making across all levels of Government and to make full use, as appropriate, of the Hyogo Framework for Action Monitor system to support the assessment of progress made in disaster risk reduction; 
	5.	Stresses the need to foster better understanding and knowledge of the causes of disasters, as well as to build and strengthen coping capacities, in particular in developing countries, through, inter alia, the exchange of best practices, technology transfer, as mutually agreed, and technical knowledge, educational and training programmes for disaster risk reduction, access to relevant data and information, the strengthening of institutional arrangements and the promotion of community participation and ownership through community-based disaster risk management approaches; 
	6.	Recognizes the importance of the developing of strategies at the national, subregional, regional and international levels by Member States, in particular developing countries, to achieve disaster risk reduction, and reiterates the need to further develop regional initiatives and risk reduction capacities of regional mechanisms where they exist, to strengthen them and to encourage the use and sharing of all existing tools, and requests the regional commissions, within their mandates, to support the efforts of Member States in this regard, in close coordination with the implementing entities of the United Nations system; 
	7.	Encourages States to establish disaster risk reduction as a priority for community-level action and to promote the involvement of relevant stakeholders, including community representatives, national Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, other civil society actors and the private sector, and to allocate adequate resources for disaster risk reduction activities at the community level; 
	8.	Recognizes the importance of coordinating adaptation to climate change with relevant disaster risk reduction measures, invites Governments and relevant international organizations to integrate those considerations in a comprehensive manner into, inter alia, development plans and poverty eradication programmes and into the preparation and implementation of national adaptation programmes of action, and invites the international community to support the ongoing efforts of developing countries in this regard; 
	9.	Welcomes the upcoming fourth session of the Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction, to be held in Geneva from 19 to 23 May 2013, which will focus on reviewing progress in the implementation of the commitments made at its previous sessions in 2007, 2009 and 2011, and encourages all relevant stakeholders to participate with senior-level representation from various sectors; 
	10.	Decides to convene the Third World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction, in Japan, in early 2015 to review the implementation of the Hyogo Framework for Action and to adopt a post-2015 framework for disaster risk reduction; 
	11.	Also decides to consider, before the end of 2013, the scope, modalities, participation, format and organization of the Conference in the most efficient and effective manner possible; 
	12.	Requests the secretariat of the International Strategy for Disaster Reduction to serve as the secretariat of the Conference, to facilitate the development of a post-2015 framework for disaster risk reduction and to coordinate the preparatory activities in consultation with all relevant stakeholders; 
	13.	Encourages all relevant stakeholders to actively engage in the consultation process for the development of a post-2015 framework for disaster risk reduction, including by the sharing of lessons learned on managing disaster risks, for example, through the convening of national multi-stakeholder consultations and participation in regional platforms; 
	14.	Strongly encourages giving appropriate consideration to disaster risk reduction and the building of resilience to disasters within the post-2015 development agenda; 
	15.	Also strongly encourages promoting a complementary and coherent approach to the relationship between the post-2015 framework for disaster risk reduction and the post-2015 development agenda; 
	16.	Encourages all Member States in a position to do so to ensure resources and support for strengthening the secretariat of the International Strategy for Disaster Reduction so that it can meet the challenges of its coming work and discharge its cross-cutting mandate with efficiency and effectiveness; 
	17.	Requests the Secretary-General to keep the institutional arrangements of the secretariat of the International Strategy for Disaster Reduction under review, with a view to supporting it in effectively and efficiently carrying out its cross-cutting mandate and its role as the focal point for disaster reduction within the United Nations system; 
	18.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-eighth session, under the item entitled "Sustainable development", the sub-item entitled "International Strategy for Disaster Reduction"; 
	19.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session a report on the implementation of the present resolution. 

61st plenary meeting
21 December 2012

1 Resolution 66/288, annex.
2 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 
3-14 June 1992, vol. I, Resolutions Adopted by the Conference (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum), resolution 1, annex I.
3 Ibid., annex II.
4 Resolution S-19/2, annex.
5 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 
26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
6 Ibid., resolution 2, annex.
7 Resolution 65/1.
8 A/CONF.206/6 and Corr.1, chap. I, resolution 2.
9 A/67/335.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1249114E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/67/209<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/67/209General AssemblyDistr.: General
 12 March 2013Sixty-seventh session
Agenda item 20 (c)

12-49114
*1249114*Please recycle 

A/RES/67/209International Strategy for Disaster Reduction

International Strategy for Disaster ReductionA/RES/67/209

2/4

3/3

