[Start1]

Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 19 December 2016
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/71/484/Add.2)]
71/186.	Human rights and extreme poverty


	The General Assembly,
	Guided by the purposes and principles contained in the Charter of the United Nations,
	Reaffirming the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,1 the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights2 and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,2 the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,3 the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,4 the Convention on the Rights of the Child,5 the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities6 and all other human rights instruments adopted by the United Nations,
	Recalling its resolution 47/196 of 22 December 1992, by which it declared 17 October the International Day for the Eradication of Poverty, and its resolution 62/205 of 19 December 2007, by which it proclaimed the Second United Nations Decade for the Eradication of Poverty (2008-2017), as well as its resolution 69/183 of 18 December 2014 and its previous resolutions on human rights and extreme poverty, in which it reaffirmed that extreme poverty and exclusion from society constituted a violation of human dignity and that urgent national and international action was therefore required to eliminate them,
	Recalling also its resolution 52/134 of 12 December 1997, in which it recognized that the enhancement of international cooperation in the field of human rights was essential for the effective understanding, promotion and protection of all human rights,
	Recalling further Human Rights Council resolutions 2/2 of 27 November 2006,7 7/27 of 28 March 2008,8 8/11 of 18 June 2008,9 12/19 of 2 October 2009,10 15/19 of 30 September 2010,11 17/13 of 17 June 201112 and 26/3 of 26 June 201413 on human rights and extreme poverty, and in this regard underlining the imperative need for their full and effective implementation,
	Recalling Human Rights Council resolution 21/11 of 27 September 2012,14 by which the Council adopted the guiding principles on extreme poverty and human rights15 as a useful tool for States in the formulation and implementation of poverty reduction and eradication policies, as appropriate, and encouraging States to implement the guiding principles,
	Reaffirming its resolution 70/1 of 25 September 2015, entitled "Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development", in which it adopted a comprehensive, far-reaching and people-centred set of universal and transformative Sustainable Development Goals and targets, its commitment to working tirelessly for the full implementation of the Agenda by 2030, its recognition that eradicating poverty in all its forms and dimensions, including extreme poverty, is the greatest global challenge and an indispensable requirement for sustainable development, and its commitment to achieving sustainable development in its three dimensions - economic, social and environmental - in a balanced and integrated manner,
	Recalling that the Sustainable Development Goals and targets seek to build on the Millennium Development Goals and complete what they did not achieve, and that they seek to realize the human rights of all and to achieve gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls,
	Reaffirming its resolution 69/313 of 27 July 2015 on the Addis Ababa Action Agenda of the Third International Conference on Financing for Development, which is an integral part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, supports and complements it, helps to contextualize its means of implementation targets with concrete policies and actions, and reaffirms the strong political commitment to address the challenge of financing and creating an enabling environment at all levels for sustainable development in the spirit of global partnership and solidarity, 
	Concerned that, during the Second United Nations Decade for the Eradication of Poverty (2008-2017), while there has been progress in reducing poverty, especially in some middle-income countries, such progress has been uneven and the number of people living in poverty in some countries continues to increase, with women, children and older persons constituting the majority of those most affected, especially in the least developed countries and particularly in sub-Saharan Africa,
	Reaffirming the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action,16 which states the right to development, as established in the Declaration on the Right to Development,17 as a universal and inalienable right and an integral part of fundamental human rights,
	Acknowledging the significant progress made in several parts of the world in combating extreme poverty, however, deeply concerned that extreme poverty persists in all countries of the world, regardless of their economic, social and cultural situation, and is particularly severe in developing countries, and that it extends to and manifests itself in, among other things, social exclusion, hunger, vulnerability to trafficking in persons, disease, lack of adequate shelter, illiteracy and hopelessness, 
	Deeply concerned that gender inequality, violence and discrimination exacerbate extreme poverty, disproportionally impacting women and girls,
	Stressing that special attention should be given to those who are living in extreme poverty and in vulnerable situations, in particular women, children, youth, older persons, persons with disabilities and indigenous peoples,
	Concerned by the challenges faced today, including those derived from the ongoing impact of the financial and economic crisis, the global food crisis, volatile food prices and other ongoing concerns over food security, epidemics and large movements of refugees and migrants, as well as the increasing challenges posed by climate change and the loss of biodiversity, and by the resulting increase in the number of people living in extreme poverty, and their negative effect on the capacity of all States, especially developing countries, to fight extreme poverty,
	Recognizing that the eradication of extreme poverty is a major challenge within the process of globalization that requires the coordination and continuation of inclusive policies through decisive national action and international cooperation, and also recognizing in this context the role of the private sector, including the corporate sector, in the eradication of extreme poverty, 
	Recognizing also that social protection systems make a critical contribution to the realization of human rights for all, in particular for those who are in vulnerable or marginalized situations and are trapped in poverty and subject to discrimination,
	Recognizing further that persistent and growing inequalities within and among countries are a major challenge to poverty eradication, particularly affecting those who are living in extreme poverty and in vulnerable situations,
	Stressing the necessity of better understanding and addressing the multidimensional causes and consequences of extreme poverty,
	Reaffirming that, since the existence of widespread extreme poverty inhibits the full and effective enjoyment of all human rights and may, in some situations, constitute a threat to the right to life, its immediate alleviation and eventual eradication must remain a high priority for the international community,
	Stressing that respect for all human rights, which are universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated, is of crucial importance for all policies and programmes to fight extreme poverty,
	Underlining the priority and urgency given by Heads of State and Government to the eradication of extreme poverty, as expressed in the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and summits in the economic, social and related fields,
	Reaffirming that democracy, development and the full and effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms are interdependent and mutually reinforcing and that they contribute to the eradication of extreme poverty,
	1.	Reaffirms that extreme poverty, deep inequality and exclusion constitute a violation of human dignity and that urgent national and international action is therefore required to eliminate them;
	2.	Also reaffirms that it is essential for States to foster participation by the poorest people in the decision-making process in the societies in which they live, in the promotion of human rights and in efforts to combat extreme poverty and exclusion and that it is essential for people living in and affected by poverty and in situations of vulnerability to be empowered to organize themselves and to participate in all aspects of political, economic, social, cultural and civic life, in particular the planning and implementation of policies that affect them, thus enabling them to become genuine partners in development;
	3.	Emphasizes that extreme poverty is a major issue to be addressed by Governments, civil society, community-based social organizations, the private sector, including the corporate sector, the United Nations system and international financial institutions, and in this context reaffirms that political commitment is a prerequisite for the eradication of poverty;
	4.	Also emphasizes the need to accord due consideration and priority to poverty eradication within the United Nations development agenda, while stressing the importance of addressing the causes and challenges of poverty through integrated, coordinated and coherent strategies at the national, intergovernmental and inter-agency levels, consistent with the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and summits in the economic, social and related fields;
	5.	Reaffirms that the existence of widespread extreme poverty inhibits the full and effective enjoyment of human rights and renders democracy and popular participation fragile;
	6.	Recognizes the need to promote respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in order to address the most pressing social needs of people living in poverty, including through the design and development of appropriate mechanisms to strengthen and consolidate democratic institutions and governance;
	7.	Reaffirms the commitments contained in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development,18 in particular the commitments to leave no one behind, to reach the furthest behind and the most vulnerable and to achieve Sustainable Development Goal 1, including by sparing no effort to fight against and eradicate extreme poverty, which is currently measured as people living on less than 1.25 United States dollars a day, for all people everywhere by 2030;
	8.	Also reaffirms the commitment made at the 2005 World Summit to eradicate poverty and promote sustained economic growth, sustainable development and global prosperity for all, including women and girls;19 
	9.	Further reaffirms that the objective of the Second United Nations Decade for the Eradication of Poverty (2008-2017) is to support, in an efficient and coordinated manner, the follow-up to the implementation of the internationally agreed development goals relating to the eradication of poverty, and to coordinate international support to that end;
	10.	Recalls that promoting universal access to social services and providing social protection floors can make an important contribution to consolidating and achieving further development gains and that social protection systems that address and reduce inequality and social exclusion are essential for protecting the gains made towards the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals, and in this regard takes note of the Social Protection Floors Recommendation, 2012 (No. 202), of the International Labour Organization;
	11.	Encourages States, when designing, implementing, monitoring and evaluating social protection programmes, to ensure gender mainstreaming and the promotion and protection of all human rights in accordance with their obligations under international human rights law, throughout this process;
	12.	Also encourages States to take all necessary measures to eliminate discrimination against all persons, in particular those living in poverty, to refrain from adopting any laws, regulations or practices denying or limiting the enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms, including economic, social and cultural rights, and to ensure that people, in particular those living in poverty, have equal access to justice;
	13.	Welcomes the ongoing efforts to strengthen and support South-South cooperation and triangular cooperation, recognizing their contributions to the efforts of developing countries to collaborate in the eradication of poverty, and stresses that South-South cooperation is not a substitute for, but rather a complement to, North-South cooperation;
	14.	Encourages the international community to strengthen its efforts to address challenges that are contributing to extreme poverty, including those derived from the ongoing impact of the financial and economic crisis, the global food crisis, volatile food prices and other ongoing concerns over food security, epidemics and the increasing challenges posed by climate change and the loss of biodiversity in all parts of the world, especially in developing countries, by enhancing cooperation to help to build national capacities;
	15.	Reaffirms the critical role of quality education and lifelong learning for all in achieving poverty eradication and other development goals, as envisaged in the 2030 Agenda, in particular free, equitable and quality primary and secondary education and training for eradicating illiteracy, efforts towards expanded secondary and higher education as well as vocational education and technical training, especially for girls and women, the creation of human resources and infrastructure capabilities and the empowerment of those living in poverty, also reaffirms in this context the Dakar Framework for Action, adopted at the World Education Forum on 28 April 2000,20 and the Incheon Declaration: Education 2030: Towards inclusive and equitable quality education and lifelong learning for all, adopted at the World Education Forum 2015, and recognizes the importance of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization strategy for the eradication of poverty, especially extreme poverty, in supporting the Education for All programmes as tools for achieving Sustainable Development Goal 4 by 2030;
	16.	Invites the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to continue to give high priority to the question of the relationship between extreme poverty and human rights, and also invites his Office to pursue further work in this area;
	17.	Calls upon States, United Nations bodies, in particular the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the United Nations Development Programme, intergovernmental organizations and non-governmental organizations, to continue to give appropriate attention to the links between human rights and extreme poverty, and encourages the private sector, including the corporate sector, and international financial institutions to proceed likewise;
	18.	Takes note with appreciation of the guiding principles on extreme poverty and human rights,15 adopted by the Human Rights Council in its resolution 21/11,14 as a useful tool for States in the formulation and implementation of poverty reduction and eradication policies, as appropriate;
	19.	Encourages Governments, relevant United Nations bodies, funds and programmes and the specialized agencies, other intergovernmental organizations and national human rights institutions, as well as non-governmental organizations and non-State actors, and the private sector, including the corporate sector, to consider the guiding principles in the formulation and implementation of their policies and measures concerning persons affected by extreme poverty;
	20.	Requests the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to disseminate the guiding principles, as appropriate;
	21.	Welcomes the efforts of entities throughout the United Nations system to incorporate the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals set out therein into their work;
	22.	Takes note of the work undertaken by the Special Rapporteur of the Human Rights Council on extreme poverty and human rights, including his report submitted to the General Assembly at its seventieth session21 and his report submitted to the Assembly at its seventy-first session,22 and also notes the work of the Secretary-General to address the issues referred to therein; 
	23.	Decides to consider the question further at its seventy-third session under the sub-item entitled "Human rights questions, including alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms" of the item entitled "Promotion and protection of human rights".

65th plenary meeting
19 December 2016

1 Resolution 217 A (III).
2 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
3 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 660, No. 9464.
4 Ibid., vol. 1249, No. 20378.
5 Ibid., vol. 1577, No. 27531.
6 Ibid., vol. 2515, No. 44910.
7 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-second Session, Supplement No. 53 (A/62/53), chap. I, sect. A.
8 Ibid., Sixty-third Session, Supplement No. 53 (A/63/53), chap. II, sect. A.
9 Ibid., chap. III, sect. A.
10 Ibid., Sixty-fifth Session, Supplement No. 53 and corrigendum (A/65/53 and Corr.1), chap. I, sect. A.
11 Ibid., Supplement No. 53A (A/65/53/Add.1), chap. II.
12 Ibid., Sixty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 53 (A/66/53), chap. III, sect. A.
13 Ibid., Sixty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 53 (A/69/53), chap. V, sect. A.
14 Ibid., Sixty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 53A (A/67/53/Add.1), chap. II.
15 A/HRC/21/39.
16 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
17 Resolution 41/128, annex.
18 Resolution 70/1.
19 See resolution 60/1.
20 See United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Final Report of the World Education Forum, Dakar, Senegal, 26-28 April 2000 (Paris, 2000).
21 A/70/274.
22 A/71/367.
[Start1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1645441E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/71/186<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________


------------------------------------------------------------


---------------


------------------------------------------------------------


7
    

7

United NationsA/RES/71/186General AssemblyDistr.: General
2 February 2017Seventy-first session
Agenda item 68 (b)

16-21992 (E)
*1621992*Please recycle 

A/RES/71/186Human rights and extreme poverty


Human rights and extreme povertyA/RES/71/186


2/2


7/7


