[COMMENT1]
UNITED									A
NATIONS



             General Assembly


                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/54/102
                                                                          17 January 2000





Fifty-fourth session
Agenda item 153


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Sixth Committee (A/54/608)]


54/102.	United Nations Programme of Assistance in the Teaching, Study, Dissemination and Wider Appreciation of International Law


    The General Assembly,

    Taking note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the United Nations Programme of Assistance in the Teaching, Study, Dissemination and Wider Appreciation of International Law1 and the guidelines and recommendations on future implementation of the Programme which were adopted by the Advisory Committee on the Programme and are contained in section III of that report,

    Considering that international law should occupy an appropriate place in the teaching of legal disciplines at all universities,

    Noting with appreciation the efforts made by States at the bilateral level to provide assistance in the teaching and study of international law,


    Convinced, nevertheless, that States and international organizations and institutions should be encouraged to give further support to the Programme and increase their activities to promote the teaching, study, dissemination and wider appreciation of international law, in particular those activities which are of special benefit to persons from developing countries,

    Reaffirming its resolutions 2464 (XXIII) of 20 December 1968, 2550 (XXIV) of 12 December 1969, 2838 (XXVI) of 18 December 1971, 3106 (XXVIII) of 12 December 1973, 3502 (XXX) of 15 December 1975, 32/146 of 16 December 1977, 36/108 of 10 December 1981 and 38/129 of 19 December 1983, in which it stated or recalled that in the conduct of the Programme it was desirable to use as far as possible the resources and facilities made available by Member States, international organizations and others, as well as its resolutions 34/144 of 17 December 1979, 40/66 of 11 December 1985, 42/148 of 7 December 1987, 44/28 of 4 December 1989, 46/50 of 9 December 1991 and 48/29 of 9 December 1993, in which, in addition, it expressed or reaffirmed the hope that, in appointing lecturers for the seminars to be held within the framework of the fellowship programme in international law, account would be taken of the need to secure the representation of major legal systems and balance among various geographical regions,

    Welcoming the establishment of the United Nations Audiovisual Library in International Law,

    1.	Approves the guidelines and recommendations contained in section III of the report of the Secretary-General1 and adopted by the Advisory Committee on the United Nations Programme of Assistance in the Teaching, Study, Dissemination and Wider Appreciation of International Law, in particular those designed to achieve the best possible results in the administration of the Programme within a policy of maximum financial restraint;

    2.	Authorizes the Secretary-General to carry out in 2000 and 2001 the activities specified in his report, including the provision of:

    (a)	A number of international law fellowships in both 2000 and 2001, to be determined in the light of the overall resources for the Programme and to be awarded at the request of Governments of developing countries;

    (b)	A minimum of one scholarship in both 2000 and 2001 under the Hamilton Shirley Amerasinghe Memorial Fellowship on the Law of the Sea, subject to the availability of new voluntary contributions made specifically to the fellowship fund;

    (c)	Subject to the overall resources for the Programme, assistance in the form of a travel grant for one participant from each developing country, who would be invited to possible regional courses to be organized in 2000 and 2001;

and to finance the above activities from provisions in the regular budget, when appropriate, as well as from voluntary financial contributions earmarked for each of the activities concerned, which would be received as a result of the requests set out in paragraphs 13 to 15 below;


    3.	Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General for his constructive efforts to promote training and assistance in international law within the framework of the Programme in 1998 and 1999, in particular for the organization of the thirty-fourth2 and thirty-fifth3 sessions of the International Law Seminar, held at Geneva in 1998 and 1999, respectively, and for the activities of the Office of Legal Affairs of the Secretariat related to the fellowship programme in international law and to the Hamilton Shirley Amerasinghe Memorial Fellowship on the Law of the Sea, carried out, respectively, through its Codification Division and its Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea;

    4.	Requests the Secretary-General to consider the possibility of admitting, for participation in the various components of the Programme, candidates from countries willing to bear the entire cost of such participation;

    5.	Also requests the Secretary-General to consider the relative advantages of using available resources and voluntary contributions for regional, subregional or national courses, as against courses organized within the United Nations system;

    6.	Further requests the Secretary-General to continue to provide the necessary resources to the programme budget for the Programme for the next and the future bienniums with a view to maintaining the effectiveness of the Programme;

    7.	Welcomes the efforts undertaken by the Office of Legal Affairs to bring up to date the United Nations Treaty Series and the United Nations Juridical Yearbook, as well as efforts made to place on the Internet the Treaty Series and other legal information;

    8.	Expresses its appreciation to the United Nations Institute for Training and Research for its participation in the Programme through the activities described in the report of the Secretary-General;

    9.	Also expresses its appreciation to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization for its participation in the Programme through the activities described in the report of the Secretary-General;

    10.	Further expresses its appreciation to the Hague Academy of International Law for the valuable contribution it continues to make to the Programme, which has enabled candidates under the fellowship programme in international law to attend and participate in the Programme in conjunction with the Academy courses;

    11.	Notes with appreciation the contributions of the Hague Academy of International Law to the teaching, study, dissemination and wider appreciation of international law, and calls upon Member States and interested organizations to give favourable consideration to the appeal of the Academy for a continuation of support and a possible increase in their financial contributions, to enable the Academy to carry out its activities, particularly those relating to the summer courses, regional courses and programmes of the Centre for Studies and Research in International Law and International Relations;


    12.	Urges all States and relevant international organizations, whether regional or universal, to make all possible efforts to implement the goals and carry out the activities contemplated in section IV of the programme of activities for the final term (1997-1999) of the United Nations Decade of International Law, dealing with the encouragement of the teaching, study, dissemination and wider appreciation of international law and contained in the annex to  resolution 51/157 of 16 December 1996;

    13.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue to publicize the Programme and periodically to invite Member States, universities, philanthropic foundations and other interested national and international institutions and organizations, as well as individuals, to make voluntary contributions towards the financing of the Programme or otherwise to assist in its implementation and possible expansion;

    14.	Reiterates its request to Member States and to interested organizations and individuals to make voluntary contributions, inter alia, for the International Law Seminar, the fellowship programme in international law, the Hamilton Shirley Amerasinghe Memorial Fellowship on the Law of the Sea and the United Nations Audiovisual Library in International Law, and expresses its appreciation to those Member States, institutions and individuals which have made voluntary contributions for this purpose;

    15.	Urges in particular all Governments to make voluntary contributions for the organization of regional refresher courses in international law by the United Nations Institute for Training and Research, especially with a view to covering the amount needed for the financing of the daily subsistence allowance for up to twenty-five participants in each regional course, thus alleviating the burden on prospective host countries and making it possible for the Institute to continue to organize the regional courses;

    16.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session on the implementation of the Programme during 2000 and 2001 and, following consultations with the Advisory Committee on the Programme, to submit recommendations regarding the execution of the Programme in subsequent years;

    17.	Decides to appoint twenty-five Member States, six from Africa, five from Asia, three from Eastern Europe, five from Latin America and the Caribbean and six from Western Europe and other States, as members of the Advisory Committee on the United Nations Programme of Assistance in the Teaching, Study, Dissemination and Wider Appreciation of International Law, for a period of four years beginning on 1 January 2000;4 

    18.	Also decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-sixth session the item entitled "United Nations Programme of Assistance in the Teaching, Study, Dissemination and Wider Appreciation of International Law".

	76th plenary meeting
	9 December 1999

1 A/54/515.
2 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-third Session, Supplement No. 10 and corrigendum (A/53/10 and Corr.1), chap. X, sect. H.
3 Ibid., Fifty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 10 and corrigenda (A/54/10 and Corr.1 and 2), chap. X, sect. E.
4 States appointed members of the Advisory Committee on the United Nations Programme of Assistance in the Teaching, Study, Dissemination and Wider Appreciation of International Law are the following: Canada, Colombia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Ethiopia, France, Germany, Ghana, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Italy, Jamaica, Kenya, Lebanon, Malaysia, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Portugal, Russian Federation, Sudan, Trinidad and Tobago, Ukraine, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America and Uruguay.
[COMMENT1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0024103E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/54/102<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------


00 24103	/...


00 24103	/...

A/RES/54/102
Page 




	A/RES/54/102
	Page 





	/...


	/...





