<<ODS JOB NO>>N9876783E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/52/110<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>

UNITED									A
NATIONS



					General Assembly


																		Distr.
																		GENERAL

																		A/RES/52/110
																		19 February 1998






Fifty-second session
Agenda item 110


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/52/642)]


52/110.Report of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination


	The General Assembly,

	Recalling its previous resolutions concerning the reports of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination and its resolutions on the status of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,1 most recently resolution 51/80 of 12 December 1996,

	Bearing in mind the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993,2 in particular section II. B of the Declaration relating to equality, dignity and tolerance,

	Reiterating the importance of the Convention, which is one of the most widely accepted human rights instruments adopted under the auspices of the United Nations, and mindful of the importance of the contributions of the Committee to the efforts of the United Nations to combat racism and all other forms of discrimination based on race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin,

	Calling upon States which have not yet become parties to the Convention to ratify it or accede thereto,


	Emphasizing the obligation of all States parties to the Convention to take legislative, judicial and other measures in order to secure full implementation of the provisions of the Convention,

	Recalling its resolution 47/111 of 16 December 1992, in which it welcomed the decision, taken on 15 January 1992 by the Fourteenth Meeting of States Parties to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,3 to amend paragraph 6 of article 8 of the Convention and to add a new paragraph, as paragraph 7 of article 8, with a view to providing for the financing of the Committee from the regular budget of the United Nations, and registering its concern that the amendment to the Convention has not yet entered into force,

	Reiterating the importance of enabling the Committee to function smoothly and to have all necessary facilities for the effective performance of its functions under the Convention,

	Recalling the provisions of paragraph 4 of article 10 of the Convention regarding the location of the meetings of the Committee,

	I

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON THE ELIMINATION OF RACIAL DISCRIMINATION

	1.	Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination on its fiftieth and fifty-first sessions;4

	2.	Commends the Committee for its work with regard to the implementation of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,1 especially the examination of reports under article 9 and action on communications under article 14 of the Convention;

	3.	Calls upon States parties to fulfil their obligation, under paragraph 1 of article 9 of the Convention, to submit their periodic reports on measures taken to implement the Convention in due time;

	4.	Commends the Committee on its efforts to contribute to the effective implementation of international instruments on human rights, inter alia, by continuing to improve its working methods, which include the process of reviewing the implementation of the Convention in States whose reports are seriously overdue, and, in that regard, invites the Secretary-General to seek further ways to assist those States in fulfilling their reporting obligations;

	5.	Commends the Committee for its continuing contribution to the prevention of racial discrimination, including early warning measures and urgent procedures, and welcomes its relevant action thereon;

	6.	Encourages the Committee to continue to contribute fully to the implementation of the Third Decade to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination and its revised Programme of Action,5 including by continuing to collaborate with the Subcommission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities of the Commission on Human Rights, as well as by cooperating with the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance;

	7.	Welcomes and encourages the cooperation and exchange of information between the Committee and relevant structures and mechanisms of the United Nations, including the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, as well as with the General Assembly and the States parties to the Convention;

	II

FINANCIAL SITUATION OF THE COMMITTEE ON THE ELIMINATION
OF RACIAL DISCRIMINATION

	8.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the financial status of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination,6

	9.	Expresses its profound concern about the fact that a number of States parties to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination have still not fulfilled their financial obligations, as shown in the report of the Secretary-General, and strongly appeals to all States parties that are in arrears to fulfil their outstanding financial obligations under paragraph 6 of article 8 of the Convention;

	10.	Strongly urges States parties to the Convention to accelerate their domestic ratification procedures with regard to the amendment to the Convention concerning the financing of the Committee and to notify the Secretary-General expeditiously in writing of their agreement to the amendment, as decided upon at the Fourteenth Meeting of States Parties to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination on 15 January 1992,3 endorsed by the General Assembly in its resolution 47/111 of 16 December 1992 and further reiterated at the Sixteenth Meeting of States Parties on 16 January 1996;

	11.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue to ensure adequate financial arrangements and appropriate means and to provide necessary support to ensure the functioning of the Committee and to enable it to cope with its increasing amount of work;

	12.	Also requests the Secretary-General to invite those States parties to the Convention that are in arrears to pay the amounts in arrears and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its fifty-third session;


	13.	Decides to consider the report of the Secretary-General on the financial situation of the Committee and the report of the Committee at its fifty-third session under the item entitled "Elimination of racism and racial discrimination".

	70th plenary meeting
	12 December 1997
1 Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.
2 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
3 See CERD/SP/45, annex.
4 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-second Session, Supplement No. 18 (A/52/18).
5 Resolution 49/146, annex.
6 A/52/463.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------



 

 


98-76783	/...


98-76783	/...

A/RES/52/110
Page 1



	A/RES/52/110
	Page 1




98-76783	/...


98-76783	/...

A/RES/52/110
Page 2



	A/RES/52/110
	Page 2




	/...


	/...

A/RES/52/110
Page 3



	A/RES/52/110
	Page 3







