[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 16 December 2005
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/60/500)]

60/130.	Implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for Social Development and of the twenty-fourth special session of the General Assembly


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling the World Summit for Social Development, held at Copenhagen from 6 to 12 March 1995, and the twenty-fourth special session of the General Assembly, entitled "World Summit for Social Development and beyond: achieving social development for all in a globalizing world", held at Geneva from 26 June to 1 July 2000,
	Reaffirming that the Copenhagen Declaration on Social Development and the Programme of Action1 and the further initiatives for social development adopted by the General Assembly at its twenty-fourth special session,2 as well as a continued global dialogue on social development issues, constitute the basic framework for the promotion of social development for all at the national and international levels,
	Recalling the United Nations Millennium Declaration3 and the development goals contained therein, as well as the commitments made at major United Nations summits, conferences and special sessions, including the commitments made at the 2005 World Summit,4
	Recalling also its resolution 57/270 B of 23 June 2003 on the integrated and coordinated implementation of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and summits in the economic and social fields,
	1.	Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General;5
	2.	Also takes note with appreciation of the report on the world social situation, 20056 and one of its main findings, that the development agenda cannot be advanced without addressing the challenges of inequality within and between countries and that the failure to address this inequality predicament will ensure that social justice and better living conditions for all people will remain elusive and that communities, countries and regions will remain vulnerable to social, political and economic upheaval;
	3.	Welcomes the outcome of the ten-year review of the World Summit for Social Development, which took place during the forty-third session of the Commission for Social Development, in February 2005;7
	4.	Also welcomes the reaffirmation by Governments of their will and commitment to continue implementing the Copenhagen Declaration on Social Development and the Programme of Action,1 in particular to eradicate poverty, promote full and productive employment and foster social integration to achieve stable, safe and just societies for all;
	5.	Reaffirms the recognition that the implementation of the Copenhagen commitments and the attainment of the internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration,3 are mutually reinforcing and that the Copenhagen commitments are crucial to a coherent, people-centred approach to development;
	6.	Recognizes that, while action taken to implement the outcomes of the major United Nations summits, conferences and special sessions in the economic, social and related fields held during the past ten years will further promote social development, strengthened and effective international and regional cooperation and assistance for development and progress towards increased participation, greater social justice and improved equity in societies will also be required; 
	7.	Also recognizes that the broad concept of social development affirmed by the World Summit for Social Development and the twenty-fourth special session of the General Assembly has been weakened in national and international policymaking and that, while poverty eradication is a central part of development policy and discourse, further attention should be given to the other commitments agreed to at the Summit, in particular those concerning employment and social integration, which have also suffered from a general disconnect between economic and social policymaking;
	8.	Emphasizes that poverty eradication policies should attack poverty by addressing its root and structural causes and manifestations, and that equity and the reduction of inequalities need to be incorporated in those policies;
	9.	Reaffirms the commitment to employment policies that promote full and productive employment and decent work for all under conditions of equity, equality, security and dignity, and also reaffirms that employment creation should be incorporated into macroeconomic policies;
	10.	Reaffirms also that social integration policies should seek to reduce inequalities, promote access to basic social services, education and health care, increase the participation and integration of social groups and address the challenges posed by globalization and market-driven reforms on social development in order for all people in all countries to benefit from globalization; 
	11.	Reaffirms further that the Commission for Social Development will continue to have the primary responsibility for the follow-up and review of the World Summit for Social Development and the outcome of the twenty-fourth special session of the General Assembly and that it serves as the main United Nations forum for an intensified global dialogue on social development issues, and encourages Governments, the relevant specialized agencies, funds and programmes of the United Nations system and civil society to enhance their support to its work;
	12.	Reaffirms the commitments made in "Meeting the special needs of Africa" at the 2005 World Summit,4 underlines the call of the Economic and Social Council for enhanced coordination within the United Nations system and the ongoing efforts to harmonize the current initiatives on Africa, and requests the Commission for Social Development to continue to give due prominence in its work to the social dimensions of the New Partnership for Africa's Development;8
	13.	Reaffirms also that each country has the primary responsibility for its own economic and social development and that the role of national policies and development strategies cannot be overemphasized, and underlines the importance of adopting effective measures, including new financial mechanisms as appropriate, to support the efforts of developing countries to achieve sustained economic growth, sustainable development, poverty eradication and the strengthening of their democratic systems;
	14.	Reaffirms further, in this context, that international cooperation has an essential role in assisting developing countries, including the least developed countries, in strengthening their human, institutional and technological capacity;
	15.	Reaffirms that social development requires the active involvement of all actors in the development process, including civil society organizations, corporations and small businesses, and that partnerships among all relevant actors are increasingly becoming part of national and international cooperation for social development, and also reaffirms that, within countries, partnerships among the Government, civil society and the private sector can contribute effectively to the achievement of social development goals;
	16.	Underlines the responsibility of the private sector, at both the national and the international levels, including small and large companies and transnational corporations, regarding not only the economic and financial but also the development, social, gender and environmental implications of their activities, their obligations towards their workers and their contributions to achieving sustainable development, including social development, and emphasizes the need to take concrete actions within the United Nations system and through the participation of all relevant stakeholders on corporate responsibility and accountability, including for the prevention or prosecution of corruption;
	17.	Invites the Secretary-General, the Economic and Social Council, the regional commissions, the relevant specialized agencies, funds and programmes of the United Nations system and other intergovernmental forums, within their respective mandates, to continue to integrate into their work programmes and give priority attention to the Copenhagen commitments and the Declaration on the tenth anniversary of the World Summit for Social Development,7 to continue to be actively involved in their follow-up and to monitor the achievement of those commitments and undertakings;
	18.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-first session the item entitled "Implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for Social Development and of the twenty-fourth special session of the General Assembly", and requests the Secretary-General to submit a report on the question to the Assembly at that session.
64th plenary meeting
16 December 2005
1 Report of the World Summit for Social Development, Copenhagen, 6-12 March 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.8), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.
2 Resolution S-24/2, annex.
3 See resolution 55/2.
4 See resolution 60/1.
5 A/60/80.
6 A/60/117; see also United Nations publication, Sales No. E.05.IV.5.
7 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2005, Supplement No. 6 (E/2005/26), chap. I, sect. A; see also Economic and Social Council decision 2005/234.
8 A/57/304, annex.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0549540E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/60/130<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/60/130General AssemblyDistr.: General
26 January 2006Sixtieth session
Agenda item 61

05-49540

A/RES/60/130

A/RES/60/130

4

3

