[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 21 December 2010
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/65/457)]
65/230.	Twelfth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice


	The General Assembly,
	Emphasizing the responsibility assumed by the United Nations in the field of crime prevention and criminal justice in pursuance of Economic and Social Council resolution 155 C (VII) of 13 August 1948 and General Assembly resolution 415 (V) of 1 December 1950,
	Acknowledging that the United Nations congresses on crime prevention and criminal justice, as major intergovernmental forums, have influenced national policies and practices and promoted international cooperation in this field by facilitating the exchange of views and experience, mobilizing public opinion and recommending policy options at the national, regional and international levels,
	Recalling its resolution 46/152 of 18 December 1991, in the annex to which Member States affirmed that the United Nations congresses on crime prevention and criminal justice should be held every five years and should provide a forum for, inter alia, the exchange of views between States, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations and individual experts representing various professions and disciplines, the exchange of experiences in research, law and policy development, and the identification of emerging trends and issues in crime prevention and criminal justice,
	Recalling also its resolution 57/270 B of 23 June 2003 on the integrated and coordinated implementation of and follow-up to the outcomes of major United Nations conferences and summits in the economic and social fields, in which it stressed that all countries should promote policies consistent and coherent with the commitments of the major United Nations conferences and summits, emphasized that the United Nations system had an important responsibility to assist Governments to stay fully engaged in the follow-up to and implementation of agreements and commitments reached at the major United Nations conferences and summits and invited its intergovernmental bodies to further promote the implementation of the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and summits,
	Recalling further its resolution 64/180 of 18 December 2009, in which it called upon the Twelfth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice to formulate concrete proposals for further follow-up and action, paying particular attention to practical arrangements relating to the effective implementation of the international legal instruments pertaining to transnational organized crime, terrorism and corruption and technical assistance activities relating thereto, and requested the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice at its nineteenth session to give high priority to considering the conclusions and recommendations of the Twelfth Congress, with a view to recommending, through the Economic and Social Council, appropriate follow-up by the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session,
	Bearing in mind the United Nations Millennium Declaration, adopted by the Heads of State and Government at the Millennium Summit of the United Nations on 8 September 2000,1 in which Heads of State and Government resolved, inter alia, to strengthen respect for the rule of law in international as well as in national affairs, to take concerted action against international terrorism and accede as soon as possible to all the relevant international conventions, to redouble their efforts to implement their commitment to counter the world drug problem, and to intensify their efforts to fight transnational crime in all its dimensions, including trafficking as well as smuggling in human beings and money-laundering,
	Having considered the report of the Twelfth Congress2 and the related recommendations made by the Commission at its nineteenth session,3
	1.	Expresses its satisfaction with the results achieved by the Twelfth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, held in Salvador, Brazil, from 12 to 19 April 2010, including the Salvador Declaration on Comprehensive Strategies for Global Challenges: Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Systems and Their Development in a Changing World, adopted at the high-level segment of the Twelfth Congress;
	2.	Expresses its appreciation to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime for the work done in the preparations for and follow-up to the Twelfth Congress, and thanks the institutes of the United Nations crime prevention and criminal justice programme network for their contribution to the Congress, in particular with regard to the workshops held within the framework of the Congress;
	3.	Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Twelfth Congress,2 which contains the results of the Congress, including the conclusions and recommendations made at the workshops and at the high-level segment held during the Congress;
	4.	Endorses the Salvador Declaration adopted by the Twelfth Congress, as approved by the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice and annexed to the present resolution;
	5.	Invites Governments to take into consideration the Salvador Declaration and the recommendations adopted by the Twelfth Congress when formulating legislation and policy directives and to make all efforts, where appropriate, to implement the principles contained therein, taking into account the economic, social, legal and cultural specificities of their respective States;
	6.	Invites Member States to identify areas covered in the Salvador Declaration where further tools and training manuals based on international standards and best practices are needed, and to submit that information to the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice so that it may take that information into account when considering potential areas of future activity of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime;
	7.	Welcomes the decision of the Government of Brazil to contribute a percentage of the value of confiscated assets to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, pursuant to article 30 of the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime4 and article 62 of the United Nations Convention against Corruption,5 as well as paragraph 9 of General Assembly resolution 55/25 of 15 November 2000 and paragraph 4 of Assembly resolution 58/4 of 31 October 2003, and looks forward to expeditious implementation of that decision;
	8.	Also welcomes the prompt consideration and action by the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice on a number of issues addressed in the Salvador Declaration, including those addressed in separate resolutions approved by the Commission at its nineteenth session, such as violence against migrants, migrant workers and their families, emerging forms of crime that have a significant impact on the environment and international cooperation in criminal matters;3
	9.	Requests the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice to establish, in line with paragraph 42 of the Salvador Declaration, an open-ended intergovernmental expert group, to be convened prior to the twentieth session of the Commission, to conduct a comprehensive study of the problem of cybercrime and responses to it by Member States, the international community and the private sector, including the exchange of information on national legislation, best practices, technical assistance and international cooperation, with a view to examining options to strengthen existing and to propose new national and international legal or other responses to cybercrime;
	10.	Also requests the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice to establish, in line with paragraph 49 of the Salvador Declaration, an open-ended intergovernmental expert group, to be convened between the twentieth and twenty-first sessions of the Commission, to exchange information on best practices, as well as national legislation and existing international law, and on the revision of existing United Nations standard minimum rules for the treatment of prisoners so that they reflect recent advances in correctional science and best practices, with a view to making recommendations to the Commission on possible next steps;
	11.	Requests the open-ended intergovernmental expert groups established pursuant to paragraphs 9 and 10 above to report to the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice on progress in their work;
	12.	Requests the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, in the development and implementation of its technical assistance programmes, to aim for sustainable and long-lasting results in the prevention, prosecution and punishment of crime, in particular by building, modernizing and strengthening criminal justice systems, as well as promoting the rule of law, and to design such programmes to achieve those aims for all components of the criminal justice system, in an integrated way and with a long-term perspective, increasing the capacity of requesting States to prevent and suppress the various types of crime affecting societies, including organized crime and cybercrime;
	13.	Also requests the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime to continue to provide technical assistance to facilitate the ratification and implementation of the United Nations Convention against Corruption, the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the international instruments related to the prevention and suppression of terrorism;
	14.	Requests the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice to consider at its twentieth session options to improve the efficiency of the process involved in the United Nations congresses on crime prevention and criminal justice, taking into account the recommendations made by the Intergovernmental Group of Experts on Lessons Learned from United Nations Congresses on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice at its meeting, held in Bangkok from 15 to 18 August 2006;6
	15.	Requests the Secretary-General to distribute the report of the Twelfth Congress, including the Salvador Declaration, to Member States, intergovernmental organizations and non-governmental organizations, so as to ensure that the recommendations of the Congress are disseminated as widely as possible, and to seek proposals by Member States for ways and means of ensuring appropriate follow-up to the Salvador Declaration for consideration and action by the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice at its twentieth session;
	16.	Welcomes with appreciation the offer of the Government of Qatar to act as host to the Thirteenth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, in 2015;
	17.	Expresses its profound gratitude to the people and Government of Brazil for the warm and generous hospitality extended to the participants in the Twelfth Congress and for the excellent facilities provided for the Congress;
	18.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session a report on the implementation of the present resolution.

71st plenary meeting
21 December 2010

Annex
Salvador Declaration on Comprehensive Strategies for Global Challenges: Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Systems and Their Development
in a Changing World
	We, the States Members of the United Nations,
	Having assembled at the Twelfth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice in Salvador, Brazil, from 12 to 19 April 2010,7 to take more effective concerted action, in a spirit of cooperation, to prevent, prosecute and punish crime and seek justice,
	Recalling the work of the eleven previous United Nations congresses on crime prevention and criminal justice, the conclusions and recommendations of the regional preparatory meetings for the Twelfth Congress8 and the documents prepared by the relevant working groups established by the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice,9
	Reaffirming the necessity of respecting and protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms in the prevention of crime and the administration of, and access to, justice, including criminal justice,
	Recognizing the centrality of crime prevention and the criminal justice system to the rule of law and that long-term sustainable economic and social development and the establishment of a functioning, efficient, effective and humane criminal justice system have a positive influence on each other,
	Noting with concern the rise of new and emerging forms of transnational crime,
	Greatly concerned by the negative impact of organized crime on human rights, the rule of law, security and development, as well as by the sophistication, diversity and transnational aspects of organized crime and its links with other criminal and, in some cases, terrorist activities,
	Stressing the need to strengthen international, regional and subregional cooperation to effectively prevent, prosecute and punish crime, in particular by enhancing the national capacity of States through the provision of technical assistance, 
	Greatly concerned by criminal acts against migrants, migrant workers and their families and other groups in vulnerable situations, particularly those acts motivated by discrimination and other forms of intolerance,
	Declare as follows:
	1.	We recognize that an effective, fair and humane criminal justice system is based on the commitment to uphold the protection of human rights in the administration of justice and the prevention and control of crime.
	2.	We also recognize that it is the responsibility of each Member State to update, where appropriate, and maintain an effective, fair, accountable and humane crime prevention and criminal justice system.
	3.	We acknowledge the value and impact of the United Nations standards and norms in crime prevention and criminal justice and endeavour to use those standards and norms as guiding principles in designing and implementing our national crime prevention and criminal justice policies, laws, procedures and programmes. 
	4.	Bearing in mind the universal character of the United Nations standards and norms in crime prevention and criminal justice, we invite the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice to consider reviewing and, if necessary, updating and supplementing them. In order to render them effective, we recommend that appropriate efforts be made to promote the widest application of those standards and norms and to raise awareness of them among authorities and entities responsible for their application at the national level.
	5.	We acknowledge the need for Member States to ensure effective gender equality in crime prevention, access to justice and the protection offered by the criminal justice system.
	6.	We express deep concern about the pervasiveness of violence against women in all its different forms and manifestations worldwide, and urge States to enhance efforts to prevent, prosecute and punish violence against women. In this regard, we note with appreciation the draft updated Model Strategies and Practical Measures on the Elimination of Violence against Women in the Field of Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, as finalized by the intergovernmental expert group at its meeting held in Bangkok from 23 to 25 March 2009,10 and look forward to their consideration by the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice.
	7.	We recognize the importance of adopting appropriate legislation and policies to prevent victimization, including revictimization, and to provide protection and assistance to victims.
	8.	We consider that international cooperation and technical assistance can play an important role in achieving sustainable and long-lasting results in the prevention, prosecution and punishment of crime, in particular by building, modernizing and strengthening our criminal justice systems and promoting the rule of law. Specific technical assistance programmes should thus be designed to achieve these aims, for all the components of the criminal justice system, in an integrated way and with a long-term perspective, enabling the capacity of requesting States to prevent and suppress the various types of crime affecting their societies, including organized crime. In that regard, the experience and expertise accumulated over the years by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime constitute a valuable asset.
	9.	We strongly recommend the allocation of sufficient human and financial resources to develop and implement effective policies, programmes and training dealing with crime prevention, criminal justice and the prevention of terrorism. In this regard, we stress the serious need to provide the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime with a level of resources commensurate with its mandate. We call upon Member States and other international donors to support, and coordinate with, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, including its regional and country offices, the institutes of the United Nations crime prevention and criminal justice programme network and requesting States in the provision of technical assistance to strengthen their capacity to prevent crime.
	10.	We acknowledge the leading role of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime in providing technical assistance to facilitate the ratification and implementation of the international instruments related to the prevention and suppression of terrorism. 
	11.	We invite the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice to consider strengthening the capacity of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime to collect, analyse and disseminate accurate, reliable and comparable data on world crime and victimization trends and patterns, and we call upon Member States to support the gathering and analysis of information and to consider designating focal points and provide information when requested to do so by the Commission. 
	12.	We welcome the decision of the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice to engage in a thematic debate on protection against trafficking in cultural property and the recommendations made by the open-ended intergovernmental expert group on protection against trafficking in cultural property at its meeting, held in Vienna from 24 to 26 November 2009,11 and invite the Commission to conduct appropriate follow-up, including exploring the need for guidelines for crime prevention with respect to trafficking in cultural property. Furthermore, we urge States that have not yet done so to develop effective legislation to prevent, prosecute and punish this crime in any of its forms and to strengthen international cooperation and technical assistance in this area, including the recovery and return of cultural property, bearing in mind the existing relevant international instruments, including the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime,4 where appropriate.
	13.	We recognize the increasing risk of the convergence of transnational organized crime and illicit networks, many of which are new or evolving. We call upon Member States to cooperate, including through information-sharing, in an effort to address these evolving transnational criminal threats. 
	14.	We acknowledge the challenge posed by emerging forms of crime that have a significant impact on the environment. We encourage Member States to strengthen their national crime prevention and criminal justice legislation, policies and practices in this area. We invite Member States to enhance international cooperation, technical assistance and the sharing of best practices in this area. We invite the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, in coordination with the relevant United Nations bodies, to study the nature of the challenge and ways to deal with it effectively.
	15.	We express our serious concerns about the challenge posed by economic fraud and identity-related crime and their links to other criminal and, in some cases, terrorist activities. We therefore invite Member States to take appropriate legal measures to prevent, prosecute and punish economic fraud and identity-related crime and to continue to support the work of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime in this area. Furthermore, Member States are encouraged to enhance international cooperation in this area, including through the exchange of relevant information and best practices, as well as through technical and legal assistance. 
	16.	We recognize that international cooperation in criminal matters in accordance with international obligations and national laws is a cornerstone of the efforts of States to prevent, prosecute and punish crime, in particular in its transnational forms, and we encourage the continuation and reinforcement of such activities at all levels. 
	17.	We call upon those States that have not yet done so to consider ratifying or acceding to the United Nations Convention against Corruption,5 welcome the establishment of its mechanism for the review of implementation, look forward to its effective implementation and acknowledge the work of the intergovernmental working groups on asset recovery and technical assistance.
	18.	We also call upon those States that have not yet done so to consider ratifying or acceding to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the Protocols thereto,12 and note with appreciation the decision of the General Assembly, in its resolution 64/179 of 18 December 2009, to hold in 2010 high-level meetings and a special treaty event. We also take note of ongoing initiatives aimed at exploring options regarding an appropriate and effective mechanism to assist the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime in the review of the implementation of the Convention. 
	19.	We call upon Member States that have not yet done so to consider ratifying or acceding to the international instruments against terrorism, including its financing. We also call upon all States parties to use those instruments and the relevant United Nations resolutions to enhance international cooperation in countering terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and its financing, including evolving features of the latter. 
	20.	We call upon Member States, consistent with their international obligations, to establish or strengthen, as appropriate, central authorities fully empowered and equipped to deal with requests for international cooperation in criminal matters. In this perspective, regional legal cooperation networks could be supported.
	21.	Aware that gaps may exist in relation to international cooperation in criminal matters, we invite the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice to consider reviewing this issue and explore the need for various means of addressing gaps that are identified.
	22.	We emphasize the need for the adoption of effective measures to implement the provisions on preventing, prosecuting and punishing money-laundering contained in the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the United Nations Convention against Corruption. We encourage Member States to develop strategies to combat money-laundering based on the provisions of these two Conventions. 
	23.	We encourage Member States to consider developing strategies or policies to combat illicit capital flows and to curb the harmful effects of jurisdictions and territories uncooperative in tax matters.
	24.	We recognize the need to deny criminals and criminal organizations the proceeds of their crimes. We call upon all Member States, within their national legal systems, to adopt effective mechanisms for the seizure, restraint and confiscation of proceeds of crime and to strengthen international cooperation to ensure effective and prompt asset recovery. We also call upon States to preserve the value of seized and confiscated assets, including through disposal, where appropriate and possible, where there is a risk of their value diminishing.
	25.	Bearing in mind the need to reinforce criminal justice systems of developing countries and countries with economies in transition, we urge States parties to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the United Nations Convention against Corruption to fully implement the technical assistance provisions of each Convention, including by giving special consideration to contributing, in accordance with their national law and the provisions of those Conventions, a percentage of the proceeds of crime confiscated under each Convention to fund technical assistance through the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. 
	26.	We are convinced of the importance of preventing youth crime, supporting the rehabilitation of young offenders and their reintegration into society, protecting child victims and witnesses, including efforts to prevent their revictimization, and addressing the needs of children of prisoners. We stress that such responses should take into account the human rights and best interests of children and youth, as called for in the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Optional Protocols thereto,13 where applicable, and in other relevant United Nations standards and norms in juvenile justice,14 where appropriate.
	27.	We support the principle that the deprivation of liberty of children should be used only as a measure of last resort and for the shortest appropriate period of time. We recommend the broader application, as appropriate, of alternatives to imprisonment, restorative justice and other relevant measures that foster the diversion of young offenders from the criminal justice system. 
	28.	We call upon States to develop and strengthen, where appropriate, legislation, policies and practices to punish all forms of crime that target children and youth, as well as for the protection of child victims and witnesses.
	29.	We encourage States to provide tailored training in an interdisciplinary approach to those involved in the administration of juvenile justice.
	30.	We invite the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice to consider requesting the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime to design and provide to States specific technical assistance programmes to achieve these aims. 
	31.	We call upon civil society, including the media, to support the efforts to protect children and youth from exposure to content that may exacerbate violence and crime, particularly content depicting and glorifying acts of violence against women and children.
	32.	We are convinced of the need to accelerate efforts to fully implement the United Nations guidelines on crime prevention and the prevention components of existing conventions and other relevant international standards and norms. 
	33.	We recognize that the development and adoption of crime prevention policies and their monitoring and evaluation are the responsibility of States. We believe that such efforts should be based on a participatory, collaborative and integrated approach that includes all relevant stakeholders, including those from civil society. 
	34.	We recognize the importance of strengthening public-private partnerships in preventing and countering crime in all its forms and manifestations. We are convinced that, through the mutual and effective sharing of information, knowledge and experience and through joint and coordinated actions, Governments and businesses can develop, improve and implement measures to prevent, prosecute and punish crime, including emerging and changing challenges.
	35.	We stress the need for all States to have national and local action plans for crime prevention that take into account, inter alia, factors that place certain populations and places at higher risk of victimization and/or offending in a comprehensive, integrated and participatory manner, and for such plans to be based on the best available evidence and good practices. We stress that crime prevention should be considered an integral element of strategies to foster social and economic development in all States.
	36.	We urge Member States to consider adopting legislation, strategies and policies for the prevention of trafficking in persons, the prosecution of offenders and the protection of victims of trafficking, consistent with the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime.15 We call upon Member States, where applicable, in cooperation with civil society and non-governmental organizations, to follow a victim-centred approach with full respect for the human rights of the victims of trafficking, and to make better use of the tools developed by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. 
	37.	We urge Member States to consider adopting and implementing effective measures to prevent, prosecute and punish the smuggling of migrants and to ensure the rights of smuggled migrants, consistent with the Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land, Sea and Air, supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime.16 In this context, we recommend that Member States, inter alia, undertake awareness-raising campaigns, in cooperation with civil society and non-governmental organizations. 
	38.	We affirm our determination to eliminate violence against migrants, migrant workers and their families, and we call upon Member States to adopt measures for preventing and addressing effectively cases of such violence and to ensure that those individuals receive humane and respectful treatment from States, regardless of their status. We also invite Member States to take immediate steps to incorporate into international crime prevention strategies and norms measures to prevent, prosecute and punish crimes involving violence against migrants, as well as violence associated with racism, xenophobia and related forms of intolerance. We invite the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice to consider this issue further in a comprehensive manner.
	39.	We note that the development of information and communications technologies and the increasing use of the Internet create new opportunities for offenders and facilitate the growth of crime. 
	40.	We realize the vulnerability of children, and we call upon the private sector to promote and support efforts to prevent child sexual abuse and exploitation through the Internet. 
	41.	We recommend that the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, upon request, provide, in cooperation with Member States, relevant international organizations and the private sector, technical assistance and training to States to improve national legislation and build the capacity of national authorities in order to deal with cybercrime, including the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of such crime in all its forms, and to enhance the security of computer networks.
	42.	We invite the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice to consider convening an open-ended intergovernmental expert group to conduct a comprehensive study of the problem of cybercrime and responses to it by Member States, the international community and the private sector, including the exchange of information on national legislation, best practices, technical assistance and international cooperation, with a view to examining options to strengthen existing and to propose new national and international legal or other responses to cybercrime.
	43.	We endeavour to take measures to promote wider education and awareness of the United Nations standards and norms in crime prevention and criminal justice to ensure a culture of respect for the rule of law. In this regard, we recognize the role of civil society and the media in cooperating with States in these efforts. We invite the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime to continue to play a key role in the development and implementation of measures to promote and develop such a culture, in close coordination with other relevant United Nations entities.
	44.	We undertake to promote appropriate training of officials entrusted with upholding the rule of law, including correctional facility officers, law enforcement officials and the judiciary, as well as prosecutors and defence lawyers, in the use and application of those standards and norms. 
	45.	We are concerned by urban crime and its impact on specific populations and places. We therefore recommend stronger coordination between security and social policies, with a view to addressing some of the root causes of urban violence. 
	46.	We recognize that specific groups are particularly vulnerable to situations of urban crime, and we therefore recommend the adoption and implementation of civic intercultural programmes, where appropriate, aimed at combating racism and xenophobia, reducing the exclusion of minorities and migrants and thus promoting community cohesion. 
	47.	We acknowledge the increasing links between transnational organized crime and drug trafficking in the context of the world drug problem. In this regard, we stress the urgent need for all States to enhance bilateral, regional and international cooperation to effectively counter the challenges posed by these links.
	48.	We recognize that the penitentiary system is one of the key components of the criminal justice system. We endeavour to use the United Nations standards and norms for the treatment of prisoners as a source of guidance in the development or updating of our national codes of penitentiary administration.
	49.	We invite the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice to consider convening an open-ended intergovernmental expert group to exchange information on best practices, as well as national legislation and existing international law, and on the revision of existing United Nations standard minimum rules for the treatment of prisoners so that they reflect recent advances in correctional science and best practices, with a view to making recommendations to the Commission on possible next steps. 
	50.	We welcome the draft United Nations Rules for the Treatment of Women Prisoners and Non-custodial Measures for Women Offenders.17 Taking note of the outcome and the recommendations of the meeting of the expert group to develop supplementary rules specific to the treatment of women in detention and in custodial and non-custodial settings,18 we recommend that the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice consider them as a matter of priority for appropriate action.
	51.	We stress the need to reinforce alternatives to imprisonment, which may include community service, restorative justice and electronic monitoring, and support rehabilitation and reintegration programmes, including those to correct offending behaviour, and educational and vocational programmes for prisoners. 
	52.	We recommend that Member States endeavour to reduce pretrial detention, where appropriate, and promote increased access to justice and legal defence mechanisms. 
	53.	We support effective and efficient follow-up of the outcomes of the United Nations congresses on crime prevention and criminal justice. We welcome the inclusion of a standing item on the agenda of the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice at its annual sessions on this matter and on preparations for future congresses on crime prevention and criminal justice. 
	54.	We welcome with appreciation the offer of the Government of Qatar to act as host to the Thirteenth United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, in 2015. 
	55.	We express our profound gratitude to the people and Government of Brazil for their warm and generous hospitality and for the excellent facilities provided for the Twelfth Congress.
1 See resolution 55/2.
2 A/CONF.213/18.
3 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2010, Supplement No. 10 (E/2010/30).
4 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2225, No. 39574.
5 Ibid., vol. 2349, No. 42146.
6 See E/CN.15/2007/6.
7 In line with resolutions 46/152, 56/119, 62/173, 63/193 and 64/180.
8 See A/CONF.213/RPM.1/1, A/CONF.213/RPM.2/1, A/CONF.213/RPM.3/1 and A/CONF.213/RPM.4/1.
9 Intergovernmental Group of Experts on Lessons Learned from United Nations Congresses on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice (Bangkok, 15-18 August 2006) (E/CN.15/2007/6); intergovernmental expert group to review and update the Model Strategies and Practical Measures on the Elimination of Violence against Women in the Field of Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice (Bangkok, 23-25 March 2009) (E/CN.15/2010/2); expert group to develop supplementary rules specific to the treatment of women in detention and in custodial and non-custodial settings (Bangkok, 23-26 November 2009) (A/CONF.213/17); expert group on protection against trafficking in cultural property (Vienna, 24-26 November 2009) (see E/CN.15/2010/5); expert group on improving the collection, reporting and analysis of crime data (Buenos Aires, 8-10 February 2010) (see E/CN.15/2010/14).
10 Resolution 65/228, annex.
11 See E/CN.15/2010/5.
12 United Nations, Treaty Series, vols. 2225, 2237, 2241 and 2326, No. 39574.
13 Ibid., vols. 1577, 2171 and 2173, No. 27531.
14 The United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Administration of Juvenile Justice (the Beijing Rules) (resolution 40/33, annex); the United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for Non-custodial Measures (the Tokyo Rules) (resolution 45/110, annex); the United Nations Guidelines for the Prevention of Juvenile Delinquency (the Riyadh Guidelines) (resolution 45/112, annex); the United Nations Rules for the Protection of Juveniles Deprived of Their Liberty (resolution 45/113, annex); the Guidelines on Justice in Matters involving Child Victims and Witnesses of Crime (Economic and Social Council resolution 2005/20, annex); and the basic principles on the use of restorative justice programmes in criminal matters (Economic and Social Council resolution 2002/12, annex).
15 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2237, No. 39574.
16 Ibid., vol. 2241, No. 39574.
17 Resolution 65/229, annex.
18 See A/CONF.213/17.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1052634E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/65/230<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/65/230General AssemblyDistr.: General
1 April 2011Sixty-fifth session
Agenda item 105

10-52634
*1052634*

A/RES/65/230

A/RES/65/230

12

11

