[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 22 December 2004
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/59/483/Add.1)]
59/227.	Implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the outcomes of the World Summit on Sustainable Development 


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 55/199 of 20 December 2000, 56/226 of 24 December 2001, 57/253 of 20 December 2002 and 57/270 A and B of 20 December 2002 and 23 June 2003, respectively, as well as its resolution 58/218 of 23 December 2003,
	Recalling also the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development,1 Agenda 21,2 the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21,3 the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development4 and the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation"),5
	Reaffirming the commitment to implement Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21, the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation, including the time-bound goals and targets, and the other internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration,6
	Recalling the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and summits, including the Monterrey Consensus of the International Conference on Financing for Development,7
	Reaffirming the continuing need to ensure a balance between economic development, social development and environmental protection as interdependent and mutually reinforcing pillars of sustainable development,
	Reaffirming also that eradicating poverty, changing unsustainable patterns of production and consumption and protecting and managing the natural resource base of economic and social development are overarching objectives of and essential requirements for sustainable development,
	Recognizing that good governance within each country and at the international level is essential for sustainable development,
	Noting with satisfaction that the Commission on Sustainable Development at its twelfth session undertook an in-depth evaluation of progress in implementing Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation, focusing on the thematic cluster of issues on water, sanitation and human settlements, and identified best practices, constraints and obstacles in the process of implementation,8
	Noting that the organization of work of the twelfth session of the Commission included plenary sessions, an interactive plenary dialogue and regional meetings, as well as a partnership fair, learning centres and side events,
	Recalling the decision of the Commission at its eleventh session, endorsed by the Economic and Social Council in its resolution 2003/61 of 25 July 2003, that the Commission, at its policy sessions, to be held in April/May of the second year of the cycle, would take policy decisions on practical measures and options to expedite implementation in the selected thematic cluster of issues, taking account of the discussions of the intergovernmental preparatory meeting, the reports of the Secretary-General and other relevant inputs,9
	Recalling also the decision of the Commission at its eleventh session that the discussions of the intergovernmental preparatory meeting would be based on the outcome of the review session and reports of the Secretary-General, as well as other relevant inputs, and that, on the basis of those discussions, the Chair would prepare a draft negotiating document for consideration at the policy session,9
	Looking forward to the upcoming cycles of the work programme of the Commission as adopted at its eleventh session and their contributions to the further implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the outcomes of the World Summit on Sustainable Development,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the activities undertaken in the implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the outcomes of the World Summit on Sustainable Development;10 
	2.	Reiterates that sustainable development is a key element of the overarching framework for United Nations activities, in particular for achieving the internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration6 and in the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation;5
	3.	Calls upon Governments, all relevant international and regional organizations, the Economic and Social Council, the United Nations funds and programmes, the regional commissions and specialized agencies, the international financial institutions, the Global Environment Facility and other intergovernmental organizations, in accordance with their respective mandates, as well as major groups, to take action to ensure the effective implementation of and follow-up to the commitments, programmes and time-bound targets adopted at the World Summit on Sustainable Development, and encourages them to report on concrete progress in that regard;
	4.	Calls for the implementation of the commitments, programmes and time-bound targets adopted at the Summit and, to that end, for the fulfilment of the provisions relating to the means of implementation, as contained in the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation;
	5.	Encourages Governments to participate, at the appropriate level, with representatives from the relevant departments and agencies in water, sanitation and human settlements, as well as finance, in the intergovernmental preparatory meeting and the thirteenth session of the Commission on Sustainable Development;
	6.	Recalls the decision of the Commission at its eleventh session to invite the regional commissions, in collaboration with the secretariat of the Commission, to consider organizing regional implementation meetings in order to contribute to the work of the Commission,9 and in this regard urges the regional commissions to take into account the relevant thematic clusters contained in the programme of work of the Commission and to provide inputs as specified by the Commission at its eleventh session;
	7.	Recalls also the decision of the Commission at its eleventh session that activities during Commission meetings should provide for the balanced involvement of participants from all regions, as well as for gender balance;9
	8.	Welcomes the contributions of the regional commissions to the work of the Commission at its twelfth session, including the regional meetings focusing on the thematic cluster of issues on water, sanitation and human settlements, and their inputs to the reports of the Secretary-General;
	9.	Invites donor countries to consider supporting the participation of experts from the developing countries in the areas of water, sanitation and human settlements in the thirteenth session of the Commission;
	10.	Takes note with interest of the establishment of the Advisory Board on Water and Sanitation by the Secretary-General, and looks forward to its contribution to the mobilization of efforts and resources towards the implementation of the commitments, goals and targets agreed upon in these areas;
	11.	Requests the Secretary-General, in reporting to the Commission at its thirteenth session on the state of the implementation of Agenda 21,2 the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 213 and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation,5 on the basis of appropriate inputs from all levels, to submit thematic reports on each of the three issues contained in the thematic cluster of issues on water, sanitation and human settlements, taking into account their interlinkages, while addressing the cross-cutting issues identified by the Commission at its eleventh session;9
	12.	Requests the Commission, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 47/191 of 22 December 1992 and as specified by the Commission at its eleventh session, to examine the cross-cutting issues related to the thematic cluster of issues on water, sanitation and human settlements;
	13.	Stresses the importance of the success of the Commission at its thirteenth session in:
	(a)	Taking policy decisions on practical measures and options to expedite implementation in the thematic cluster of issues on water, sanitation and human settlements;
	(b)	Mobilizing further action by all implementation actors to overcome obstacles and constraints in the implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation;
	14.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on inter-agency cooperation,11 and requests him to continue his efforts to strengthen system-wide inter-agency cooperation and coordination for the implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation, and in this regard to report on such inter-agency cooperation and coordination activities and their terms of reference to the Economic and Social Council in 2005;
	15.	Recalls its resolution 58/291 of 6 May 2004 and Economic and Social Council resolutions 2004/44 of 22 July 2004 and 2004/63 of 23 July 2004, and in this regard requests the Commission, without prejudice to the decisions adopted at its eleventh session, to contribute through the Council to the high-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly in 2005, in accordance with the modalities to be set out by the Assembly at its fifty-ninth session;
	16.	Requests the secretariat of the Commission to make arrangements to facilitate the balanced representation of major groups from developed and developing countries in the sessions of the Commission;
	17.	Notes the convening of the second international expert meeting on a ten-year framework of programmes for sustainable consumption and production, to be held in Costa Rica in September 2005, and in this regard, while acknowledging their ongoing support, urges Member States to consider further support for those activities;
	18.	Encourages Governments and organizations at all levels, as well as major groups, including the scientific community and educators, to undertake results-oriented initiatives and activities to support the work of the Commission and to promote and facilitate the implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation, including through voluntary multi-stakeholder partnership initiatives;
	19.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixtieth session the item entitled "Implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the outcomes of the World Summit on Sustainable Development", and requests the Secretary-General, at that session, to submit a report on the implementation of the present resolution.

75th plenary meeting
22 December 2004
1 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigenda), vol. I: Resolutions adopted by the Conference, resolution 1, annex I.
2 Ibid., annex II.
3 Resolution S-19/2, annex.
4 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
5 Ibid., resolution 2, annex.
6 See resolution 55/2.
7 Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico, 18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
8 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2004, Supplement No. 9 (E/2004/29).
9 Ibid., 2003, Supplement No. 9 (E/2003/29), chap. I, sect. A.
10 A/59/220.
11 E/2004/12-E/CN.17/2004/3.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0448988E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/59/227<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/59/227General AssemblyDistr.: General
16 February 2005Fifty-ninth session
Agenda item 85 (a)

04-48988

A/RES/59/227

A/RES/59/227

4

3

