[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 21 December 2009
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/64/420/Add.5)]
64/202.	Implementation of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 58/211 of 23 December 2003, 61/202 of 20 December 2006, 62/193 of 19 December 2007, 63/218 of 19 December 2008 and other resolutions relating to the implementation of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa,1 
	Reasserting its commitment to combating and reversing desertification and land degradation in arid, semi-arid and dry sub-humid areas, consistent with articles 1, 2 and 3 of the Convention, and to mitigating the effects of drought, eradicating extreme poverty, promoting sustainable development and food security and improving the livelihoods of vulnerable people affected by drought and/or desertification, taking into account the ten-year strategic plan and framework to enhance the implementation of the Convention (2008-2018), 2
	Reaffirming the universal membership of the Convention, and acknowledging that desertification, land degradation and drought are problems of a global dimension in that they affect all regions of the world, 
	Taking note with appreciation of the decision adopted in Sirte, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, on 3 July 2009 by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the African Union at its thirteenth ordinary session, authorizing the African Union to accede to the Convention, 3
	Reaffirming the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation"),4 in which the Convention is recognized as one of the tools for poverty eradication, and reiterating its resolve to eradicate extreme poverty, 
	Noting the need for enhanced cooperation among the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa,1 the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change5 and the Convention on Biological Diversity6 ("the Rio Conventions"), while respecting their individual mandates, 
	Welcoming the outcomes of the seventeenth session of the Commission on Sustainable Development regarding desertification, land degradation and drought,7 
	Concerned by the increasing frequency and severity of dust/sandstorms affecting arid and semi-arid regions and their negative impact on the environment and the economy, 
	Concerned also by the negative impacts that desertification, land degradation, loss of biodiversity and climate change have on each other, recognizing the potential benefits of complementarities in addressing these problems in a mutually supportive manner, and recognizing also the interrelationship between climate change, loss of biodiversity and desertification and the need to intensify efforts to combat desertification and promote sustainable land management, 
	Recognizing the need for investment in sustainable land management in arid, semi-arid and dry sub-humid areas, and emphasizing the need for the full implementation of the ten-year strategic plan and framework, 
	Recognizing also the need to strengthen the scientific basis underpinning the Convention, 
	Recognizing further the importance given by the ten-year strategic plan and framework to the development and implementation of scientifically based and sound methods for monitoring and assessing desertification, 
	Expressing its deep appreciation to the Government of Argentina for hosting the ninth session of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention in Buenos Aires from 21 September to 2 October 2009, 
	Welcoming the offer of the Government of the Republic of Korea to host the tenth session of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention in Changwon City, Gyeongnam Province, in autumn 2011,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa;8
	2.	Welcomes the outcome of the seventeenth session of the Commission on Sustainable Development and its policy recommendations, particularly those related to the strengthening of the institutional policy framework and the implementation of practical measures to combat land degradation and desertification in arid, semi-arid and dry sub-humid areas, enhancing capacity-building, transfer of technology and financing; 
	3.	Recognizes the cross-sectoral nature of desertification, land degradation and drought mitigation, and in this regard invites all relevant United Nations agencies to cooperate with the Convention1 in supporting an effective response to desertification and drought; 
	4.	Invites Member States to continue to integrate plans and strategies related to drought, desertification and land degradation into their national development and poverty eradication strategies, as appropriate; 
	5.	Welcomes the decision of the Conference of the Parties on the promotion and strengthening of relationships between the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification and other relevant conventions and international organizations, institutions and agencies;9
	6.	Notes the ongoing work of the Joint Liaison Group of the secretariats and offices of the relevant subsidiary bodies of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change,5 the Convention on Biological Diversity6 and the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification, and encourages continuing cooperation in order to promote complementarities in the work of the secretariats, while respecting their independent legal status; 
	7.	Encourages actions to promote sustainable management of soil as one means for mitigating the effects of drought in arid, semi-arid and dry sub-humid areas; 
	8.	Invites Member States and related organizations to cooperate in sharing information, forecasting and early warning systems related to dust/sandstorms; 
	9.	Takes note of the launch of the Global Network of Dryland Research Institutes in Buenos Aires in September 2009 during the ninth session of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention, which aims to promote research, education, training and outreach relevant to the sustainable use of drylands; 
	10.	Expresses its appreciation to the Committee on Science and Technology, and, in this respect, welcomes the outcome of the first United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification Scientific Conference, held in the context of the ninth session of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention; 
	11.	Takes note of the report of the Joint Inspection Unit on the assessment of the Global Mechanism of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification10 as well as the decision of the Conference of the Parties at its ninth session11 requesting the Bureau of the ninth session, together with the Managing Director of the Global Mechanism and the Executive Secretary, and taking into account the views of other interested relevant entities such as the host countries and the International Fund for Agricultural Development, to undertake and supervise an evaluation of existing and potential reporting, accountability and institutional arrangements for the Global Mechanism and their legal and financial implications, including the possibility of identifying a new institution or organization to house the Global Mechanism, taking into account the scenarios presented in the Joint Inspection Unit assessment of the Global Mechanism and the need to avoid duplication and overlap in the work of the secretariat of the Convention and the Global Mechanism, and further requesting the Bureau to submit to the Conference of the Parties at its tenth session a report on this evaluation for consideration and decision on the issue of reporting, accountability and institutional arrangements for the Global Mechanism; 
	12.	Requests all States parties to the Convention to promote awareness among local populations, particularly women, youth and civil society organizations, and to include them in, the implementation of the ten-year strategic plan and framework to enhance the implementation of the Convention (2008-2018), and encourages affected States parties and donors to take into account the issue of participation of civil society in Convention processes when setting priorities in national development strategies, in conformity, inter alia, with the comprehensive communication strategy adopted by the Conference of the Parties at its ninth session; 
	13.	Invites donors to the Global Environment Facility to ensure that the Facility is adequately resourced during the next replenishment period in order to allow it to allocate sufficient and adequate resources to its six focal areas, in particular its land degradation focal area; 
	14.	Welcomes the ongoing efforts of the Executive Secretary of the Convention to continue the administrative renewal and reform of the secretariat and to realign its functions in order to fully implement the relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties and bring those functions into line with the ten-year strategic plan and framework; 
	15.	Decides to include in the United Nations calendar of conferences and meetings for the biennium 2010-2011 the sessions of the Conference of the Parties and its subsidiary bodies envisaged for the biennium; 
	16.	Requests the Secretary-General to make provisions for the sessions of the Conference of the Parties and its subsidiary bodies in his proposal for the programme budget for the biennium 2010-2011; 
	17.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-fifth session the sub-item entitled "Implementation of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa"; 
	18.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session a report on the implementation of the present resolution, including a report on the implementation of the Convention. 

66th plenary meeting
21 December 2009
1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1954, No. 33480.
2 A/C.2/62/7, annex.
3African Union, document Assembly/AU/Decl.1-5 (XIII), decision Assembly/AU/Dec.255 (XIII).  Available from www.africa-union.org.
4 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 2, annex.
5 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1771, No. 30822.
6 Ibid., vol. 1760, No. 30619.
7 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2009, Supplement No. 9 (E/2009/29).
8 A/64/202, sect. II.
9 ICCD/COP(9)/18/Add.1, decision 8/COP.9.
10 See A/64/379.
11 ICCD/COP(9)/18/Add.1, decision 6/COP.9.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0947395E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/64/202<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/64/202General AssemblyDistr.: General
2 March 2010Sixty-fourth session
Agenda item 53 (e)

09-47395
*0947395*

A/RES/64/202

A/RES/64/202

2

3

