[SM1]UNITED		A
NATIONS




         General Assembly

                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/54/203
                                                                          25 January 2000
                                                                          




Fifty-fourth session
Agenda item 98 (a)


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Second Committee (A/54/586)]


54/203.	Second Industrial Development Decade for Africa

    The General Assembly,

    Recalling the Declaration on International Economic Cooperation, in particular the Revitalization of Economic Growth and Development of the Developing Countries,1 the International Development Strategy for the Fourth United Nations Development Decade,2 the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s3 and its resolutions 52/208 of 18 December 1997 and 53/177 of 15 December 1998, and taking note of Economic and Social Council decision 1999/270 of 28 July 1999 concerning the implementation and coordinated follow-up by the United Nations system of initiatives on African development,


    Recalling also the Declaration on Africa's Industrialization, adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity at its thirty-third ordinary session, held at Harare from 2 to 4 June 1997,4 and the Plan of Action for the Alliance for Africa's Industrialization, adopted by the Conference of African Ministers of Industry at its thirteenth meeting, held at Accra in May 1997,5 and taking note of the final communiqué of the first meeting of the Patrons Group of Heads of State and Government of the Alliance for Africa's Industrialization, adopted at Algiers on 13 July 1999,6 and the Conference on Industrial Partnerships and Investment in Africa, held at Dakar on 20 and 21 October 1999,

    Taking note of the statement of the Conference of African Ministers of Trade, held at Algiers in September 1999, to the Third Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization and resolution 2 (XIV) on the African common position on globalization, adopted by the fourteenth meeting of the Conference of African Ministers of Industry, held at Dakar on 22 and 23 October 1999,7 both of which recognize the critical need for support for African countries in addressing the supply-side constraints on their integration into the world economy,

    Recognizing the importance of industrialization as a key element in promoting sustained economic growth and sustainable development in Africa, in accordance with relevant General Assembly resolutions, as well as the outcomes of major United Nations conferences, and also its role in facilitating efforts for the eradication of poverty through, inter alia, promotion of competitiveness, productive employment, capacity-building, gender-mainstreaming and effective and efficient management systems,

    Recognizing also the commendable efforts of African countries to engage their respective private sectors in policy dialogue at the highest levels and to improve further the capacity of the private sector, including small and medium-sized enterprises,

    Recognizing further the need for African countries to continue their efforts to create a climate favourable to private sector development and foreign direct investment and also the commitment of African countries to using both human and financial resources more efficiently in the process of industrialization, and emphasizing the continuing need for the mobilization of adequate resources through domestic initiatives and international support, inter alia, through enhanced official development assistance, investment guarantees, debt-for-industrial development swaps, as appropriate, and enhanced market access,

    Welcoming the reform and revitalization of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization, as well as its new approach of providing comprehensive packages of integrated services to promote sustainable industrial development in African countries and its approach to field activities through joint programming with the United Nations resident coordinator system in the United Nations Development Assistance Framework, where appropriate, and commending the United Nations Industrial Development Organization for initiating closer collaboration with the World Trade Organization, with the participation of their secretariats and the States Members of the United Nations and observer States, with a view to, inter alia, contributing to efforts towards enhancing market access, as appropriate, for African industrial products,

    1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the programme for the Second Industrial Development Decade for Africa (1993-2002);8

    2.	Reaffirms the need for the African countries that have yet to do so to integrate the objectives of the Alliance for Africa's Industrialization, as appropriate, into their national plans for the establishment of institutional capacity for monitoring programmes and related projects;
    
    3.	Invites the international community, the African Development Bank and other relevant regional institutions to support the implementation of the programme for the Second Industrial Development Decade for Africa and the Plan of Action for the Alliance for Africa's  Industrialization,5 including the outcome of the Conference on Industrial Partnerships and Investment in Africa;

    4.	Appeals to the international community, the World Bank, the African Development Bank and United Nations funds and programmes, in accordance with their respective mandates, to support the efforts of the African countries to intensify and to expand industrial cooperation among themselves;

    5.	Calls upon the United Nations Industrial Development Organization to strengthen its close working relationship with the World Trade Organization and other relevant multilateral institutions, with the participation of their secretariats and the States Members of the United Nations and observer States, for the provision of technical assistance to African countries, particularly the least developed among them, so as to enhance their capacity to overcome technical barriers to trade in industrial and other products, including improving quality standards to alleviate supply-side constraints, and to promote industrial competitiveness within the context of the integrated framework initiative in order to enable them to integrate fully into the world economy;

    6.	Requests the United Nations Industrial Development Organization and the Economic Commission for Africa, in accordance with their respective mandates, and in coordination with the United Nations system, to support African countries in the implementation of the relevant recommendations contained in the report of the Secretary-General;

    7.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session a report on the implementation of the present resolution.

	87th plenary meeting
	22 December 1999

1 Resolution S-18/3, annex.
2 Resolution 45/199, annex.
3 Resolution 46/151, annex, sect. II.
4 A/52/465, annex II, document AHG/Decl.4 (XXXIII).
5 See A/52/480, sect. IV.C.
6 A/54/320, annex.
7 See E/ECA/CAMI.14/99/10, annex IV.
8 A/54/320.
[SM1]
<<ODS JOB NO>>N0025164E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/54/203<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------


00 25164	/...


00 25164	/...

A/RES/54/203
Page 2




	A/RES/54/203
	Page 





	/...


	/...





