UNITED						A
NATIONS




			General Assembly



									Distr.
									GENERAL

									A/RES/49/168
									24 February 1995







Forty-ninth session
Agenda item 98


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/49/608)]


		49/168.International action to combat drug abuse and illicit production and trafficking
	

	The General Assembly,

	Recalling its resolutions 47/97 of 16 December 1992, 48/12 of 28 October 1993 and 48/112 of 20 December 1993,

	Profoundly alarmed by the magnitude of the rising trend in drug abuse and illicit production of and trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances that threaten the health and well-being of millions of persons, in particular the youth, in all countries of the world,

	Gravely concerned that the illicit demand for, production of and traffic in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances continue to threaten seriously the socio-economic and political systems and the stability, national security and sovereignty of an increasing number of States,

	Deeply alarmed by the growing violence and economic power of criminal organizations and terrorist groups that engage in the production of, traffic in and distribution of drugs, arms and precursors and essential chemicals, which at times places them beyond the reach of the law, corrupting institutions, undermining the full exercise of human rights and threatening the stability of many societies in the world,

	Fully aware that States, the relevant organizations of the United Nations system and multilateral development banks need to accord a higher priority to dealing with this scourge, which undermines development, economic and political stability and democratic institutions, and the combat against which entails increasing economic costs for Governments and the irreparable loss of human lives,


	Convinced of the desirability of closer coordination and cooperation among States in combating drug-related crimes, such as terrorism, illicit arms trade and money laundering, and bearing in mind the role that could be played by both the United Nations and regional organizations in this respect,

	Reaffirming that a comprehensive framework for international cooperation in drug control is provided by the existing drug control conventions, the Declaration 1/ and the Comprehensive Multidisciplinary Outline of Future Activities in Drug Abuse Control, 2/ adopted by the International Conference on Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, the Political Declaration and Global Programme of Action, 3/ adopted by the General Assembly at its seventeenth special session, on 23 February 1990, the Declaration adopted by the World Ministerial Summit to Reduce the Demand for Drugs and to Combat the Cocaine Threat 4/ and the United Nations System-wide Action Plan on Drug Abuse Control, 5/ and stressing the need for insistent efforts to implement them,

	Recognizing the efforts of countries that produce narcotic drugs for scientific, medicinal and therapeutic uses to prevent the diversion of such substances to illicit markets and to maintain production at a level consistent with licit demand in line with the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961, 6/ 

	Acknowledging that there are links, under certain circumstances, between poverty and the increase in the illicit production of and trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and that the promotion of the economic development of countries affected by the illicit drug trade requires appropriate measures, including strengthened international cooperation in support of alternative and sustainable development activities in the affected areas of those countries,

	Emphasizing the need for an analysis of transit routes used by drug traffickers, which are constantly changing and expanding to include a growing number of countries and regions in all parts of the world,

	Underlining the role of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs as the principal United Nations policy-making body on drug control issues,

	Reaffirming the leadership role of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme as the main focus for concerted international action for drug abuse control and commending the way in which it has carried out the functions entrusted to it,

	Recognizing that the magnitude of the drug menace requires the formulation of strategies, approaches, objectives and enhanced international cooperation to address more effectively the international operations of those who deal in the illegal traffic of drugs, arms and precursors and essential chemicals,

	I

              Respect for the principles enshrined in the Charter of
              the United Nations and international law in the fight
	against drug abuse and illicit trafficking

	1.	Reaffirms that the fight against drug abuse and illicit trafficking should not in any way justify violation of the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations and international law, particularly respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States and non-use of force or the threat of force in international relations;

	2.	Calls upon all States to intensify their actions to promote effective cooperation in the efforts to combat drug abuse and illicit trafficking, so as to contribute to a climate conducive to achieving this end, on the basis of the principles of equal rights and mutual respect;

	II

	International action to combat drug abuse and illicit trafficking

	1.	Renews its commitment to further strengthening international cooperation and substantially increasing efforts against the illicit production, sale, demand, traffic and distribution of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, based on the principle of shared responsibility and taking into account experience gained;

	2.	Urges all States to ratify or accede to and implement all the provisions of the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961 6/ as amended by the 1972 Protocol, 7/ the Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1971 8/ and the United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of 1988; 9/

	3.	Calls upon all States to adopt adequate national laws and regulations, to strengthen national judicial systems and to carry out effective drug control activities in cooperation with other States in accordance with those international instruments;

	4.	Requests the United Nations International Drug Control Programme to continue to provide legal assistance to Member States that request it in adjusting their national laws, policies and infrastructure to implement the international drug control conventions, as well as assistance in training personnel responsible for applying the new laws;

	5.	Supports the focus on regional, subregional and national strategies for drug abuse control, particularly the master-plan approach, and urges the United Nations International Drug Control Programme to continue to complement those strategies with effective interregional strategies;

	6.	Reaffirms the danger and threat posed to civil society by drug trafficking and its links to terrorism, money laundering and the arms trade, and encourages Governments to deal with this threat and to cooperate to prevent the channelling of funds to and between those engaged in such activities;

	7.	Acknowledges that there are links between the illicit production of, demand for and traffic in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and the economic and social conditions in the affected countries and acknowledges the differences and diversity of the problems in each country;

	8.	Calls upon the international community to provide increased economic and technical support to Governments that request it for programmes of alternative and sustainable development, in countries affected by the illicit drug problem, that take fully into account the cultural traditions of peoples;

	9.	Notes the strong support expressed by members of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs for the initiatives of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme to establish a dialogue with multilateral development banks so that they might include a drug control component in lending and programming activities in interested and affected countries, and requests the Executive Director of the Programme to inform the Commission of further progress made in this area;

	10.	Stresses the need for effective action to prevent the diversion to illicit markets of precursors and essential chemicals, materials and equipment used in the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances;

	11.	Commends the International Narcotics Control Board for its valuable work in monitoring the production and distribution of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances so as to limit their use to medical and scientific purposes, and urges increased efforts to implement its mandate under article 12 of the United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances concerning the monitoring of the movement of precursors and essential chemicals;

	12.	Calls upon the United Nations International Drug Control Programme to continue providing assistance to Member States that request it in establishing or strengthening national drug detection laboratories;

	13.	Encourages the United Nations International Drug Control Programme to continue and to seek support from other relevant agencies for its laboratory research to develop environmentally safe methods for the eradication of illegal crops from which narcotic drugs are obtained, in support of national drug control strategies when requested by interested Governments and, in this context, to promote international quality standards for such methods, and requests it to report on progress made in this matter to the Commission on Narcotic Drugs at its thirty-eighth session;

	14.	Calls upon States to consider increasing efforts to eradicate illegal crops from which narcotic drugs are obtained and to take full advantage of the efforts of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme to develop environmentally safe eradication methods;

	15.	Emphasizes the need to maintain the capacity of the International Narcotics Control Board, including through the provision of appropriate means by the Secretary-General, within existing resources, and adequate technical support by the United Nations International Drug Control Programme;

	16.	Reaffirms the importance of achieving the objectives of the United Nations Decade against Drug Abuse 1991-2000, under the theme "A global response to a global challenge", by Member States, the United Nations International Drug Control Programme and the United Nations system;

	17.	Recommends to the Commission on Narcotic Drugs that it consider at its thirty-eighth session, under an existing agenda item, the documents relating to the social and economic impact of drug abuse and control and to drugs and development submitted to the Preparatory Committee for the World Summit for Social Development by the Executive Director of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme; 10/

	18.	Welcomes the decision taken by the Commission on Narcotic Drugs at its thirty-seventh session 11/ to request the Executive Director of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme, in cooperation with the International Narcotics Control Board and with the support of an ad hoc intergovernmental advisory group, to prepare an assessment of the issues covered in paragraphs 9 and 10 (a), (b), (c), (e), (i) and (j) of General Assembly resolution 48/12, as well as the issue of possible alternative funding mechanisms for United Nations drug control activities; 

	19.	Also welcomes the decision of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs 11/ to examine at its thirty-eighth session the issues identified in paragraph 10 (d), (f), (g) and (h) of General Assembly resolution 48/12; 

	20.	Takes note with satisfaction of the decision of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs to include in the provisional agenda for its thirty-eighth session an item on the reduction of illicit demand for drugs, in accordance with paragraph 10 (a) of General Assembly resolution 48/12;

	21.	Invites the Economic and Social Council, while considering the issue of international cooperation against the illicit production, sale, demand, traffic and distribution of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances at its high-level segment of 1995, to pay special attention to the report of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs requested in paragraph 11 of General Assembly resolution 48/12;

	22.	Requests the United Nations International Drug Control Programme, in its report on illicit traffic in drugs, to include an assessment of world-wide trends in illicit traffic and transit in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, including methods and routes used, and to recommend ways and means for improving the capacity of States along those routes to deal with all aspects of the drug problem;

	III

	Global Programme of Action

	1.	Reaffirms the importance of the Global Programme of Action as a comprehensive framework for national, regional and international action to combat illicit production of, demand for and trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances;

	2.	Calls upon States to implement the mandates and recommendations of the Global Programme of Action, with a view to translating it into practical action for drug abuse control at the national, regional and international levels;

	3.	Urges all Governments and competent regional organizations to develop a balanced approach within the framework of comprehensive demand reduction activities, giving adequate priority to prevention, treatment, research, social reintegration and training in the context of national strategic plans to combat drug abuse;

	4.	Calls upon the relevant United Nations bodies, the specialized agencies, the international financial institutions and other concerned intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to cooperate with and assist States in their efforts to promote and implement the Global Programme of Action;

	5.	Welcomes the efforts made by the Commission on Narcotic Drugs and the United Nations International Drug Control Programme to facilitate reporting by Governments on the implementation of the Global Programme of Action and encourages them to pursue those efforts so as to increase the number of Governments that respond;

	6.	Notes efforts being made by the United Nations International Drug Control Programme and other United Nations bodies to obtain reliable data on drug abuse and illicit trafficking, including the development of the International Drug Abuse Assessment System, encourages the Programme, in cooperation with other United Nations bodies, to take further steps to facilitate the efficient collection of data so as to avoid duplication of effort, and encourages also the increased and timely provision of updated information by Member States;

	7.	Invites the United Nations International Drug Control Programme to consider ways of providing assistance to Member States that request it in their efforts to establish appropriate mechanisms to collect and analyse data and to seek voluntary resources for this purpose;




	IV

	Implementation of the United Nations System-wide Action
	Plan on Drug Abuse Control:  action by organizations of
	the United Nations system

	1.	Supports the United Nations System-wide Action Plan on Drug Abuse Control 5/ as a vital tool for the coordination and enhancement of drug abuse control activities within the United Nations system and requests that it be updated and reviewed on a biennial basis with a view to continuing efforts to improve its presentation and usefulness as a strategic tool of the United Nations for the drug problem;

	2.	Reaffirms the role of the Executive Director of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme in coordinating and providing effective leadership for all United Nations drug control activities so as to increase cost-effectiveness and ensure coherence of action within the Programme as well as coordination, complementarity and non-duplication of such activities across the United Nations system;

	3.	Endorses the agreed conclusions adopted by the Economic and Social Council at its coordination segment of 1994, 12/ regarding coordination by the United Nations International Drug Control Programme of drug control related policies and activities of the United Nations system, including international financial institutions;

	4.	Urges the governing bodies of the United Nations organizations associated with the United Nations System-wide Action Plan on Drug Abuse Control to help ensure effective follow-up by including drug control in their agendas with a view to assessing the activities undertaken in accordance with the Plan and examining how the drug problem is addressed in relevant programmes;

	5.	Invites Member States to inform the Economic and Social Council at its high-level segment of 1995 on progress in international cooperation, especially on specific national efforts to engage the United Nations system and the multilateral development banks in addressing the drug problem;

	V

	United Nations International Drug Control Programme

	1.	Welcomes the efforts of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme to implement its mandates within the framework of the international drug control treaties, the Comprehensive Multidisciplinary Outline of Future Activities in Drug Abuse Control, the Global Programme of Action and relevant consensus documents;

	2.	Urges all Governments to provide the fullest possible financial and political support to the United Nations International Drug Control Programme, in particular by increasing voluntary contributions to the Programme, to enable it to expand and strengthen its operational and technical cooperation activities;

	3.	Invites Governments and the United Nations International Drug Control Programme to consider ways and means of improving the coordination of United Nations drug control-related activities;

	4.	Welcomes the work of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs at its reconvened thirty-sixth session on the programme budget of the Fund of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme, in accordance with the mandate contained in section XVI, paragraph 2, of General Assembly resolution 46/185 C of 20 December 1991;

	5.	Notes with appreciation the efforts made by the Executive Director of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme to comply with the approved format and methodology of the programme budget of the Fund, in accordance with relevant resolutions of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs and the General Assembly and the recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions, and encourages the Executive Director to continue his efforts to improve the presentation and transparency of the budget;

	6.	Stresses the importance of the meetings of heads of national law enforcement agencies, and encourages them to consider ways to improve their functioning and to strengthen their impact so as to enhance cooperation in the fight against drugs at the regional level;


	VI

	1.	Takes note of the reports of the Secretary-General submitted under the item entitled "International drug control"; 13/

	2.	Requests the Secretary-General:

	(a)	To submit an updated report to the General Assembly at its fifty-first session on the status of the United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances;

	(b)	To include in his annual report on the implementation of the Global Programme of Action recommendations on ways and means to improve implementation and provision of information by Member States.


	94th plenary meeting
	23 December 1994






     1/	See Report of the International Conference on Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, Vienna, 17-26 June 1987 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.87.I.18), chap. I, sect. A.
     2/	Ibid., sect. B.
     3/	Resolution S-17/2, annex.
     4/	A/45/262, annex.
     5/	See A/49/139-E/1994/57.
     6/	United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 520, No. 7515.
     7/	Ibid., vol. 976, No. 14152.
     8/	Ibid., vol. 1019, No. 14956.
     9/	United Nations publication, Sales No. E.91.XI.6.
     10/	See A/CONF.166/PC/20/Add.2.
     11/	See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1994, Supplement No. 10 (E/1994/30), chap. XI, resolution 3 (XXXVII).
     12/	See A/49/3, chap. III, sect. B.
     13/	A/49/139-E/1994/57, A/49/317, A/49/345 and A/49/369.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------



 

 


95-76987


95-76987


	/...


	/...

A/RES/49/168
Page 1



	A/RES/49/168
	Page 1




	/...


	/...

A/RES/49/168
Page 1



	A/RES/49/168
	Page 1




	/...


	/...

A/RES/49/168
Page 8



	A/RES/49/168
	Page 8







A/RES/49/168
Page 8



