[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 22 December 2004
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/59/484)]
59/239.	Implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and strengthening of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 3327 (XXIX) of 16 December 1974, 32/162 of 
19 December 1977, 34/115 of 14 December 1979, 56/205 and 56/206 of 
21 December 2001, 57/275 of 20 December 2002 and 58/226 and 58/227 of 
23 December 2003,
	Taking note of Economic and Social Council resolutions 2002/38 of 26 July 2002 and 2003/62 of 25 July 2003 and Council decision 2004/300 of 23 July 2004,
	Recalling the Habitat Agenda1 and the Declaration on Cities and Other Human Settlements in the New Millennium,2
	Taking into account the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development3 and the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation"),4 as well as the Monterrey Consensus of the International Conference on Financing for Development,5
	Recalling the goal contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration6 of achieving a significant improvement in the lives of at least 100 million slum-dwellers by 2020, as proposed in the Cities Without Slums Initiative, and recalling further the goal contained in the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation to halve, by 2015, the proportion of people who are unable to reach or afford safe drinking water and the proportion of people who do not have access to basic sanitation, 
	Recognizing that the overall thrust of the strategic vision of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat) and its emphasis on the two global campaigns on secure tenure and urban governance are strategic points of entry for the effective implementation of the Habitat Agenda, especially for guiding international cooperation in respect of adequate shelter for all and sustainable human settlements development, 
	Conscious of the need to achieve greater coherence and effectiveness in the implementation of the Habitat Agenda, the Declaration on Cities and Other Human Settlements in the New Millennium and the relevant internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the Millennium Declaration, 
	Recognizing the continued urgent need for increased and predictable financial contributions to the United Nations Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation to ensure timely, effective and concrete global implementation of the Habitat Agenda, the Declaration on Cities and Other Human Settlements in the New Millennium and the relevant internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the Millennium Declaration and the Johannesburg Declaration and Plan of Implementation,
	Reiterating the call to the Executive Director of UN-Habitat to increase the efforts to strengthen the Foundation in order to achieve its primary operative objective of supporting the implementation of the Habitat Agenda, including supporting shelter, related infrastructure-development programmes and housing-finance institutions and mechanisms, particularly in developing countries, 
	Recognizing that humanitarian assistance in the field of human settlements must be provided in ways that will be supportive of reconstruction and long-term development,
	Noting the convening of the second session of the World Urban Forum, organized by UN-Habitat in cooperation with the Government of Spain, the Autonomous Government of Catalonia and the Municipality of Barcelona, in Barcelona, from 13 to 17 September 2004,
	Expressing its appreciation to the Government of Canada and the city of Vancouver for their willingness to host the third session of the World Urban Forum in 2006,
	Emphasizing the importance of access to basic services for the urban poor, and in this regard noting the decision of the Governing Council of UN-Habitat at its nineteenth session on water and sanitation in cities,7
	Noting the commitment to integrate urban planning and management in relation to housing, transport, employment opportunities, environmental conditions and community facilities, and further noting the commitment to promote, where appropriate, the upgrading of informal settlements and urban slums as an expedient measure and pragmatic solution to the urban shelter deficit,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;8
	2.	Recognizes that Governments have the primary responsibility for the sound and effective implementation of the Habitat Agenda1 and the Declaration on Cities and Other Human Settlements in the New Millennium,2 and stresses that the international community should fully implement its commitments to support the Governments of developing countries as well as countries with economies in transition in their efforts, through the provision of the requisite resources, capacity-building, the transfer of technology and the creation of an international enabling environment; 
	3.	Calls for continued financial support to UN-Habitat through increased voluntary contributions to the United Nations Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation, and invites Governments to provide multi-year funding to support programme implementation; 
	4.	Also calls for increased, non-earmarked contributions to the Foundation;
	5.	Requests the Executive Director to continue to work with the World Bank Group, regional development banks, other development banks, the private sector and other relevant partners to field-test approaches through pilot projects and to develop longer-term programmes to mobilize resources to increase the supply of affordable credit for slum upgrading and other pro-poor human settlements development in developing countries as well as countries with economies in transition; 
	6.	Calls upon the international donor community and financial institutions to contribute generously to the Technical Cooperation Trust Fund and other operational activities of UN-Habitat for the effective implementation of its field programmes; 
	7.	Recognizes the important role of regional offices and personnel of
UN-Habitat in providing operational support to developing countries, and in this regard calls upon Governments to strengthen and support financially the regional offices of UN-Habitat in order to expand operational support to developing countries and countries with economies in transition;
	8.	Calls upon UN-Habitat to continue to work closely with the other organizations of the United Nations system, integrating UN-Habitat staff as appropriate into existing United Nations country offices;
	9.	Requests the Secretary-General to keep the resource needs of UN-Habitat and the United Nations Office at Nairobi under review so as to permit the delivery, in an effective manner, of necessary services to UN-Habitat and the other United Nations organs and organizations in Nairobi;
	10.	Encourages Governments to establish local, national and regional urban observatories and to provide financial and substantive support to UN-Habitat for the further development of methodologies for data collection, analysis and dissemination;
	11.	Encourages Member States as well as Habitat Agenda partners to provide support for the preparation of the UN-Habitat flagship reports, the Global Report on Human Settlements and the State of the World's Cities report, on a biennial basis so as to raise awareness of human settlements and to provide information on urban conditions and trends around the world; 
	12.	Encourages Governments to support the UN-Habitat Global Campaign for Secure Tenure and the Global Campaign on Urban Governance as important tools for, inter alia, promoting administration of land and property rights, in accordance with national circumstances, and enhancing access to affordable credit by the urban poor;
	13.	Invites Governments to continue to promote linkages between urban and rural areas in line with the Habitat Agenda, which recognized that cities and rural areas are interdependent economically, socially and environmentally;
	14.	Encourages Governments and UN-Habitat to continue to promote partnerships with local authorities, non-governmental organizations, the private sector and other Habitat Agenda partners, including women's groups and academic and professional groups, in order to empower them, within the legal framework and conditions of each country, to play a more effective role in the provision of adequate shelter for all and sustainable human settlements development in an urbanizing world; 
	15.	Also encourages Governments to support and enable the participation of youth in the implementation of the Habitat Agenda through social, cultural and economic activities at the city level and other national- and local-level activities; 
	16.	Further encourages Governments to include issues pertaining to shelter, sustainable human settlements and urban poverty in their national development strategies, including poverty reduction strategy papers, where they exist;
	17.	Urges the donor community to support the efforts of developing countries to make pro-poor investments in services and infrastructure in order to improve living environments, in particular in slums and informal settlements;
	18.	Requests UN-Habitat, within its mandate, to continue to support the efforts of countries affected by natural disasters and complex emergencies to develop prevention, rehabilitation and reconstruction programmes for the transition from relief to development, and encourages UN-Habitat to continue to work closely with the members of the Inter-Agency Standing Committee and other relevant agencies in the United Nations system in this field;
	19.	Invites the Secretary-General to incorporate the assessment of progress made towards the target of achieving a significant improvement in the lives of at least 100 million slum-dwellers by 2020 in his report on the review in 2005 of the implementation of the United Nations Millennium Declaration;6
	20.	Calls upon UN-Habitat and the Division for Sustainable Development of the Department of Economic and Social Affairs of the Secretariat to work together closely in the preparations for the thirteenth session of the Commission on Sustainable Development in order to ensure a fruitful policy discussion of the thematic cluster of issues on water, sanitation and human settlements;
	21.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the General Assembly at its sixtieth session on the implementation of the present resolution; 
	22.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixtieth session an item entitled "Implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and strengthening of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)".

75th plenary meeting
22 December 2004
1 Report of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II), Istanbul, 3-14 June 1996 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.97.IV.6), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
2 Resolution S-25/2, annex.
3 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa,
26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
4 Ibid., resolution 2, annex.
5 Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico,
18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
6 See resolution 55/2.
7 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 8 (A/58/8), annex I, resolution 19/6.
8 A/59/198.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0449060E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/59/239<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

4
    

4

United NationsA/RES/59/239General AssemblyDistr.: General
24 February 2005Fifty-ninth session
Agenda item 86

04-49060

A/RES/59/239

A/RES/59/239

4

3

