UNITED						A
NATIONS



			General Assembly



									Distr.
									GENERAL

									A/RES/49/80
									11 January 1995






Forty-ninth session
Agenda item 67


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the First Committee (A/49/704)]


49/80.Question of Antarctica

	The General Assembly,

	Having considered the item entitled "Question of Antarctica",

	Taking into account the debates on this item held since its thirty-eighth session,

	Reaffirming the interest of the international community in information on Antarctica,

	Welcoming the provision by the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Parties to the Secretary-General of the final report of the Eighteenth Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting, 1/ held at Kyoto, Japan, from 11 to 22 April 1994,

	Conscious of the particular significance of Antarctica to the international community, including for international peace and security, the global and regional environment, its effects on global and regional climate conditions, and scientific research,

	Reaffirming that the management and use of Antarctica should be conducted in accordance with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and in the interest of maintaining international peace and security and of promoting international cooperation for the benefit of mankind as a whole,

	Recognizing that the Antarctic Treaty, 2/ which provides, inter alia, for the demilitarization of the continent, the prohibition of nuclear explosions and the disposal of nuclear wastes, the freedom of scientific research and the free exchange of scientific information, is in furtherance of the purposes and principles of the Charter,

	Conscious also of the interrelationship between Antarctica and the physical, chemical and biological processes that regulate the total Earth system,

	Taking into account the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty, adopted by the Antarctic Treaty Parties at Madrid on 4 October 1991,

	Welcoming the designation, in the Protocol, of Antarctica as a natural reserve devoted to peace and science and the procedures contained in the Protocol regarding the protection of the Antarctic environment and dependent and associated ecosystems in the planning and conduct of all activities in Antarctica,

	Commending the prohibition on mineral resource activities contained in the Protocol,

	Welcoming the recognition by the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development of the value of Antarctica as an area for the conduct of scientific research, in particular research essential to understanding the global environment, 3/

	Welcoming also the continuing cooperation among countries undertaking scientific research activities in Antarctica, which may help to minimize human impacts on the Antarctic environment,

	Welcoming further the increasing awareness of an interest in Antarctica shown by the international community, and convinced of the advantages to the whole of mankind of a better knowledge of Antarctica,

	Affirming its conviction that, in the interest of all mankind, Antarctica should continue forever to be used exclusively for peaceful purposes and that it should not become the scene or object of international discord,

	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on Antarctica and on the report of the Eighteenth Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting, 1/ held at Kyoto, Japan, from 11 to 22 April 1994;

	2.	Welcomes the practice whereby the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Parties regularly provide the Secretary-General with information on their consultative meetings and on their activities in Antarctica, encourages the Parties to continue to provide to the Secretary-General and other interested States information on developments in relation to Antarctica, and requests the Secretary-General to submit that information in a report to the General Assembly at its fifty-first session;


	3.	Notes the role accorded by the Secretary-General to the United Nations Environment Programme in relation to Antarctic matters;

	4.	Urges the Antarctic Treaty Parties to extend invitations to the Executive Director of the United Nations Environment Programme to attend future consultative meetings in order to assist them in the substantive work;

	5.	Welcomes the statement under chapter 17 of Agenda 21, 3/ adopted by the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, that States carrying out research activities in Antarctica should, as provided for in article III of the Antarctic Treaty, 2/ continue to:

	(a)	Ensure that data and information resulting from such research are freely available to the international community;

	(b)	Enhance access of the international scientific community and specialized agencies of the United Nations to such data and information, including the encouragement of periodic seminars and symposia;

	6.	Urges the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Parties to take into account in their deliberations the outcomes of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, particularly as noted in paragraph 5 above;

	7.	Requests the Antarctic Treaty Parties to continue to make available information on Antarctica as a means of promoting further public awareness of the importance of Antarctica to the global and regional environment;

	8.	Urges the Antarctic Treaty Parties to consider becoming parties as soon as possible to the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty, and so bring the Protocol into force, in order to ensure the implementation of strengthened measures for the protection of the Antarctic environment and dependent and associated ecosystems;

	9.	Urges countries whose nationals undertake activities in Antarctica to ensure that all such activities are carried out in a manner consistent with the principles of the Protocol;

	10.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-first session the item entitled "Question of Antarctica".

	90th plenary meeting
	15 December 1994


     1/	See A/49/370.


95-76069
     2/	United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 402, No. 5778.
     3/	See Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992 (A/CONF.151/26/Rev.1 (Vol. I and 
Vol. I/Corr.1, Vol. II, Vol. III and Vol. III/Corr.1))(United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigenda), vol. I:  Resolutions adopted by the Conference, resolution 1, annex II, chap. 17, para. 17.104.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------



 

 


	/...


	/...

A/RES/49/80
Page 1



	A/RES/49/80
	Page 1




	/...


	/...

A/RES/49/80
Page 3



	A/RES/49/80
	Page 3




	/...


	/...

	A/RES/49/80
	Page 3



