<<ODS JOB NO>>N9676903E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/50/171<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>

UNITED						A
NATIONS



			General Assembly



									Distr.
									GENERAL

									A/RES/50/171
									26 February 1996






Fiftieth session
Agenda item 112 (a)


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/50/635/Add.1)]


50/171.International Covenants on Human Rights

	The General Assembly,

	Recalling its resolution 48/119 of 20 December 1993, and taking note of Commission on Human Rights resolution 1995/22 of 24 February 1995, 1/

	Mindful that the International Covenants on Human Rights 2/ constitute the first all-embracing and legally binding international treaties in the field of human rights and, together with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 3/ form the core of the International Bill of Human Rights,

	Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General 4/ on the status of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, 2/ the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights 2/ and the Optional Protocols to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 5/

	Noting that many States Members of the United Nations have yet to become parties to the International Covenants on Human Rights,


	Recalling the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and reaffirming that all human rights and fundamental freedoms are indivisible and interrelated and that the promotion and protection of one category of rights should never exempt or excuse States from the promotion and protection of the other rights,

	Recognizing the important role of the Human Rights Committee and the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights in the implementation of the International Covenants on Human Rights and the Optional Protocols to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,

	Welcoming the submission to the General Assembly of the annual report of the Human Rights Committee 6/ and the report of the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, 7/

	Considering that the effective functioning of treaty bodies established in accordance with the relevant provisions of international instruments on human rights plays a fundamental role and hence represents an important continuing concern of the United Nations,

	Noting with concern the critical situation with regard to overdue reports from States parties to the International Covenants on Human Rights,

	1.	Reaffirms the importance of the International Covenants on Human Rights as major parts of international efforts to promote universal respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms;

	2.	Appeals strongly to all States that have not yet done so to become parties to the International Covenants on Human Rights as well as to accede to the Optional Protocols to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and to make the declaration provided for in article 41 of the Covenant; 
	3.	Invites the Secretary-General to intensify systematic efforts to encourage States to become parties to the International Covenants on Human Rights and, through the programme of advisory services in the field of human rights, to assist such States, at their request, in ratifying or acceding to the Covenants and to the Optional Protocols to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights;

	4.	Emphasizes the importance of the strictest compliance by States parties with their obligations under the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and, where applicable, the Optional Protocols to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights;

	5.	Stresses the importance of avoiding the erosion of human rights by derogation, and underlines the necessity of strict observance of the agreed conditions and procedures for derogation under article 4 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, bearing in mind the need for States parties to provide the fullest possible information during states of emergency so that the justification for the appropriateness of measures taken in these circumstances can be assessed;

	6.	Stresses the importance of fully taking into account the gender perspective in the implementation of the International Covenants on Human Rights at the national level, including the national reports, and in the work of the Human Rights Committee and the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights;

	7.	Encourages the States parties to consider limiting the extent of any reservations they lodge to the International Covenants on Human Rights, to formulate any reservations as precisely and narrowly as possible and to ensure that no reservation is incompatible with the object and purpose of the relevant treaty or otherwise contrary to international law;

	8.	Also encourages the States parties to review regularly any reservations made in respect of the provisions of the International Covenants on Human Rights with a view to withdrawing them;

	9.	Takes note with appreciation of the annual reports of the Human Rights Committee submitted to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth 8/
and fiftieth 6/ sessions;

	10.	Also takes note with appreciation of the report of the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights on its tenth and eleventh sessions; 7/

	11.	Expresses its satisfaction with the serious and constructive manner in which both Committees are carrying out their functions;

	12.	Invites the Committees to identify specific needs of States parties that might be addressed through the advisory services and technical assistance programme of the Centre for Human Rights of the Secretariat, with the possible participation of members of the Committees where appropriate;

	13.	Welcomes the continuing efforts of the Human Rights Committee and the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights to strive for uniform standards in the implementation of the provisions of the International Covenants on Human Rights, and appeals to other bodies dealing with similar human rights questions to respect these uniform standards, as expressed in the general comments of the Human Rights Committee;

	14.	Urges States parties to fulfil in good time such reporting obligations under the International Covenants on Human Rights as may be requested and to make use of gender-disaggregated data in their reports;

	15.	Also urges States parties to take duly into account, in implementing the provisions of the International Covenants on Human Rights, the observations made at the conclusion of the consideration of their reports by the Human Rights Committee and by the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights;


	16.	Invites States parties to give particular attention to the dissemination at the national level of the reports they have submitted to the Human Rights Committee and the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the summary records relating to the examination of those reports by the Committees and the observations made by the Committees at the conclusion of the consideration of the reports;

	17.	Encourages once again all Governments to publish the texts of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Optional Protocols to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights in as many local languages as possible and to distribute them and make them known as widely as possible in their territories;

	18.	Requests the Secretary-General to consider ways and means of assisting States parties to the International Covenants on Human Rights in the preparation of their reports, including seminars or workshops at the national level for the purpose of training government officials engaged in the preparation of such reports, and the exploration of other possibilities available under the regular programme of advisory services in the field of human rights;

	19.	Also requests the Secretary-General to ensure that the Centre for Human Rights effectively assists the Human Rights Committee and the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights in the implementation of their respective mandates;

	20.	Once again urges the Secretary-General, taking into account the suggestions of the Human Rights Committee, to take determined steps to give more publicity to the work of that Committee and, similarly, to the work of the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights;

	21.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-second session, under the item entitled "Human rights questions", a report on the status of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Optional Protocols to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, including all reservations and declarations.


	99th plenary meeting
	22 December 1995
     1/	See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1995, Supplement No. 3 and corrigenda (E/1995/23 and Corr. 1 and 2).
     2/	Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
     3/	Resolution 217 A (III).
     4/	A/50/472.
     5/	See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex, and resolution 44/128, annex.
     6/	A/50/40.
     7/	Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1995, Supplement No. 2  and corrigendum (E/1995/22 and Corr.1).  
     8/	Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 40 (A/49/40).
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------



 

 


96-76903	/...


96-76903	/...

A/RES/50/171
Page 1



	A/RES/50/171
	Page 1




96-76903	/...


96-76903	/...

A/RES/50/171
Page 2



	A/RES/50/171
	Page 2




	/...


	/...

A/RES/50/171
Page 4



	A/RES/50/171
	Page 4







