[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/57/532/Add.6)]
57/262.	Further implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 49/122 of 19 December 1994 on the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, 
	Recalling also its resolutions 51/183 of 16 December 1996, 52/202 of 18 December 1997 and 53/189 of 15 December 1998, the review document adopted by the Assembly at its twenty-second special session,1 and its resolutions 54/224 of 22 December 1999, 55/199 of 20 December 2000, 55/202 of 20 December 2000 and 56/198 of 21 December 2001, and recalling further the Declaration of Barbados2 and the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,3 
	Taking into account the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development4 and the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation"),5 the particular emphasis given to small island developing States in the Declaration and the Plan of Implementation, and the call for the General Assembly to consider convening an international meeting for a comprehensive review of the implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States in 2004,
	Recalling the report of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development on its tenth session,6
	Welcoming the establishment of the Office of the High Representative for the Least Developed Countries, Landlocked Developing Countries and Small Island Developing States, and emphasizing the importance of issues related to small island developing States within the United Nations system,
	Recognizing that, within the context of the challenges of development, small island developing States experience specific problems arising from small size, remoteness, geographical dispersion, vulnerability to natural disasters, fragile ecosystems, constraints on transport and communication, isolation from markets, vulnerability to exogenous economic and financial shocks, limited internal markets, lack of natural resources, limited freshwater supply, heavy dependence on imports and limited commodities, depletion of non-renewable resources and migration, 
	Recognizing also the significant efforts of small island developing States to achieve sustainable development and the need to continue to enhance their capacities to participate effectively in the multilateral financial and trading system, 
	Reiterating the importance of the vulnerability index as a tool for assessing, and thereby addressing, the vulnerability of small island developing States, as well as identifying the challenges to their sustainable development, 
	Recognizing the relevance of such work to the mandate of the Committee for Development Policy concerning criteria for the identification, including designation and graduation, of the least developed countries, 
	Noting the efforts to implement the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States at the national, regional and international levels and the need for regional and global institutions to continue to supplement the efforts being made at the national level, inter alia, through the provision of adequate financial and technical support, 
	Emphasizing the continuing need for the technical and financial support of projects that were presented within the context of the implementation of the Programme of Action, inter alia, at the meeting of representatives of donor countries and small island developing States, held in New York from 24 to 26 February 1999,7 as well as the partnership initiatives presented by small island developing States and their organizations during the World Summit on Sustainable Development,
	Noting in this regard the preparatory activities undertaken at the national and regional levels for the Summit, and expressing its appreciation to the Government of Singapore for hosting the interregional meeting of the Alliance of Small Island States held in preparation for the Summit from 7 to 11 January 2002,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;8
	2.	Reiterates the urgent need for the full and effective implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States3 and of the Declaration and review document adopted by the General Assembly at its twenty-second special session1 to assist small island developing States in their efforts to achieve sustainable development;
	3.	Welcomes the efforts made at the national, subregional and regional levels to implement the Programme of Action;
	4.	Requests the relevant organs and agencies of the United Nations system, as well as the regional commissions and organizations, to undertake concrete measures, within their respective mandates, for the further implementation of the Programme of Action in the context of their programmes;
	5.	Decides to convene an international meeting in 2004, which will include a high-level segment, to undertake a full and comprehensive review of the implementation of the Programme of Action, as called for in the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation,9 and welcomes the offer of the Government of Mauritius to host the international meeting;
	6.	Also decides that the comprehensive review referred to in paragraph 5 above should seek a renewed political commitment by all countries to, and should focus on, practical and pragmatic actions for the further implementation of the Programme of Action, inter alia, through the mobilization of resources and assistance for small island developing States;
	7.	Further decides to convene regional preparatory meetings of small island developing States in the African, Caribbean and Pacific regions, as well as an interregional preparatory meeting for all small island developing States, to undertake the review of the Programme of Action at the national, subregional and regional levels and to identify and develop input for the above-mentioned review that is specific to small island developing States, while maximizing coherence and complementarity with respect to other preparatory work;
	8.	Welcomes the initial efforts of the small island developing States to develop the national and regional modalities necessary for the regional preparatory meetings, and calls upon the United Nations system in general and the Department of Economic and Social Affairs of the Secretariat in particular, as well as the Office of the High Representative for the Least Developed Countries, Landlocked Developing Countries and Small Island Developing States, the multilateral financial institutions and the Global Environment Facility, to put in place modalities at the international level that will facilitate the meetings referred to in paragraphs 5 and 7 above in a timely manner;
	9.	Requests that, in facilitating the review of the implementation of the Programme of Action, the United Nations system seek country input that is short and well-focused and that draws upon, inter alia, material prepared for the World Summit on Sustainable Development, in order to minimize the burden on participating States while maximizing the usefulness of the information gathered; 
	10.	Invites the Commission on Sustainable Development, at its eleventh session, to consider its role in the preparatory process for the comprehensive review of the Programme of Action;
	11.	Invites all Member States and States members of the specialized agencies, relevant regional and international agencies and organizations and the major groups identified in Agenda 21,10 in accordance with the rules of procedure of the Commission on Sustainable Development11 and the rules of procedure of the World Summit on Sustainable Development,12 as well as the established practices of the Commission, to participate fully in the activities identified for the further implementation of and effective follow-up to the Programme of Action and in the preparations for the comprehensive review; 
	12.	Invites all international meetings of relevance to small island developing States, including the regional and interregional meetings of small island developing States, to provide relevant input into the comprehensive review and its preparatory process; 
	13.	Requests the Secretary-General, pursuant to paragraph 8 of resolution 56/198, to give further consideration to strengthening the Small Island Developing States Unit of the Department of Economic and Social Affairs of the Secretariat, inter alia, through the regularization of the current post of Interregional Adviser for Small Island Developing States at the earliest opportunity, thereby enabling the Unit to assist in the preparations for the comprehensive review of the Programme of Action;
	14.	Calls for the participation of associate members of regional commissions in the comprehensive review of the Programme of Action, and in the preparatory process therefor, as observers, in the same capacity specified for their participation in the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, held in 1994, and in the twenty-second special session of the General Assembly, held in 1999 to review the implementation of the Programme of Action;
	15.	Decides to establish a voluntary fund for the purpose of assisting small island developing States, including the least developed among them, to participate fully and effectively in the international meeting referred to in paragraph 5 above, as well as in the various preparatory processes referred to in paragraph 7 above, and invites Governments, intergovernmental organizations and the major groups accredited to the Commission on Sustainable Development to contribute to the fund;
	16.	Urges all relevant organizations to finalize, by 2004, the work on the vulnerability index, taking into account the particular circumstances and needs of small island developing States;
	17.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session, under the item entitled "Environment and sustainable development", the sub-item entitled "Further implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States";
	18.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session on the implementation of the present resolution.

78th plenary meeting
20 December 2002
1 See resolution S-22/2, annex.
2 Report of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Bridgetown, Barbados, 25 April-6 May 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.94.I.18 and corrigenda), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
3 Ibid., annex II.
4 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
5 Ibid., resolution 2, annex.
6 TD/390.
7 See A/S-22/4.
8 A/57/131.
9 See Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 2, annex, para. 61.
10 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigenda), vol. I: Resolutions adopted by the Conference, resolution 1, annex II. The major groups are women, young people, indigenous people and their communities, non-governmental organizations, local authorities, workers and their trade unions, business and industry, including transnational corporations, the scientific and technological community, and farmers.
11 See E/5975/Rev.1.
12 A/CONF.199/2 and Corr.1.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0255660E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/57/262<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/57/262General AssemblyDistr.: General
28 February 2003Fifty-seventh session
Agenda item 87 (f)

02 55660

A/RES/57/262

A/RES/57/262

4

3

