[COMMENT1]UNITED									A
NATIONS



             General Assembly


                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/53/132
                                                                          23 February 1999

                                                                          



Fifty-third session
Agenda item 108


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/53/623)]


53/132.	Third Decade to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination and the convening of the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance

    The General Assembly,

    Reaffirming its objectives as set forth in the Charter of the United Nations of achieving international cooperation in solving problems of an economic, social, cultural or humanitarian character and in promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion,

    Reaffirming also its firm determination and its commitment to eradicate totally and unconditionally racism, in all its forms, and racial discrimination and its conviction that racism and racial discrimination constitute a total negation of the purposes and principles of the Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,1


    Recalling the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination2 and the Convention against Discrimination in Education, adopted by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization on 14 December 1960,3

    Noting the efforts of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination since its establishment in 1970 to promote the implementation of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,

    Recalling the outcome of the two World Conferences to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination, held at Geneva in 19784 and in 1983,5

    Recalling also the outcome of the World Conference on Human Rights, held at Vienna from 14 to 25 June 1993, and, in particular, the attention given in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action6 to the elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and other forms of intolerance,

    Stressing the importance and sensitivity of the activities of the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance,

    Recalling its resolutions 48/91 of 20 December 1993 and 49/146 of 23 December 1994, by which, respectively, it proclaimed the Third Decade to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination and adopted the revised Programme of Action for the Third Decade to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination,

    Noting with grave concern, that, despite the efforts of the international community, the principal objectives of the two previous Decades for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination have not been attained and that millions of human beings continue to this day to be the victims of varied forms of racism and racial discrimination,

    Noting with great concern that, despite the efforts undertaken by the international community at various levels, racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related forms of intolerance, ethnic antagonism and acts of violence are showing signs of increase,

    Recognizing both the challenges and the opportunities in combating racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance in an increasingly globalized world,

    Noting with concern that racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance may be aggravated by, inter alia, inequitable distribution of wealth, marginalization and social exclusion,


    Noting with concern also that the dissemination of racist and xenophobic propaganda is also being channelled through new communication technologies, including such computer networks as the Internet,

    Having considered the report submitted by the Secretary-General7 within the framework of the implementation of the Programme of Action,

    Firmly convinced of the need to take more effective and sustained measures at the national and international levels for the elimination of all forms of racism and racial discrimination,

    Recognizing the importance of strengthening national legislation and institutions for the promotion of racial harmony and for the effective enforcement of such legislation,

    Deeply concerned about the fact that the phenomenon of racism and racial discrimination against migrant workers continues to increase despite efforts undertaken by the international community to improve the protection of the human rights of migrant workers and members of their families,

    Recalling the adoption at its forty-fifth session of the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families,8

    Acknowledging that indigenous people are at times victims of particular forms of racism and racial discrimination,


I

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROGRAMME OF ACTION FOR THE THIRD DECADE TO COMBAT RACISM AND RACIAL DISCRIMINATION AND COORDINATION OF ACTIVITIES

    1.	Declares that racism and racial discrimination are among the most serious violations of human rights in the contemporary world, and expresses its firm determination and its commitment to eradicate, by all available means, racism, in all its forms, and racial discrimination;

    2.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the Programme of Action for the Third Decade to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination,7 and regrets that the detailed report on the financial and personnel resources required for the implementation of the Programme of Action, requested for presentation to the General Assembly at its fifty-second and fifty-third sessions, was not presented;

    3.	Urges all Governments to take all necessary measures to combat new forms of racism, in particular by constantly adapting the means provided to combat them, especially in the legislative, administrative, educational and information fields;


    4.	Requests the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to accord a high priority to the follow-up to programmes and activities for combating racism and racial discrimination consistent with the need to ensure the effective preparation of the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance;

    5.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue to accord special attention to the situation of migrant workers and members of their families and to include regularly in his reports all information on such workers;

    6.	Calls upon all Member States to consider signing and ratifying or acceding to the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families8 as a matter of priority;

    7.	Commends all States that have ratified or acceded to the international instruments to combat racism and racial discrimination, especially the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination2 and the Convention against Discrimination in Education;3

    8.	Urges States to limit the extent of any reservation they lodge to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, to formulate any reservation as precisely and as narrowly as possible, to ensure that no reservations are incompatible with the objective and purpose of the Convention or otherwise contrary to international treaty law, to review their reservations regularly with a view to withdrawing them and to withdraw reservations that are contrary to the objective and purpose of the Convention or that are otherwise incompatible with international treaty law;

    9.	Encourages the mass media to promote ideas of non-discrimination, respect, tolerance and understanding among peoples and between different cultures;

    10.	Affirms its determination to combat violence stemming from intolerance on the basis of ethnicity, which it considers an issue of particular gravity;

    11.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue the study on the effects of racial discrimination on the children of minorities and those of migrant workers in the fields of education, training and employment and to submit, inter alia, specific recommendations for the implementation of measures to combat the effects of that discrimination;

    12.	Regrets the continued lack of interest, support and financial resources for the Third Decade and its related Programme of Action, reflected in the fact that very few of the activities planned for the period 1994-1998 were carried out; 

    13.	Also regrets that the contributions made by the international community to the Trust Fund for the Programme of Action for the Third Decade to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination remain below the level required, and once again requests the Secretary-General to include in his report to the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session concrete proposals on how to ensure the financial and personnel resources required for the implementation of the Programme of Action, including through the United Nations regular budget and extrabudgetary sources;


    14.	Welcomes the convening, at Geneva from 10 to 14 November 1997, of a seminar on the role of the Internet with regard to the provisions of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,9 and invites the Commission on Human Rights to consider its recommendations for responsible use of the Internet;

    15.	Recalls its repeated appeals and those of the Economic and Social Council for the establishment of a mechanism within the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to serve as a focal point for coordinating all the activities of the Third Decade, welcomes the formation of a racism project team, and requests the High Commissioner to continue to work towards full establishment of such a mechanism;

    16.	Urges the Secretary-General, United Nations bodies, the specialized agencies, all Governments, intergovernmental organizations and relevant non-governmental organizations, in implementing the Programme of Action, to pay particular attention to the situation of indigenous people;

    17.	Requests States and international organizations to consider the relevant decisions of the Economic and Social Council on the integrated follow-up to previous world conferences and the need to make optimum use of all available mechanisms in the struggle against racism;

    18.	Strongly underlines the importance of education as a significant means of preventing and eradicating racism and racial discrimination and of creating an awareness of principles of human rights, particularly among young people, and, in this regard, renews its invitation to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization to expedite the preparation of teaching materials and teaching aids to promote teaching, training and educational activities on human rights and against racism and racial discrimination, with particular emphasis on activities at the primary and secondary levels of education;

    19.	Considers that all parts of the Programme of Action should be given equal attention in order to attain the objectives of the Third Decade;

    20.	Commends the efforts by donors that have made contributions to the Trust Fund, but notes that these contributions are not sufficient to meet the objectives of the Third Decade;

    21.	Requests the Secretary-General to accord high priority to the activities of the Programme of Action, and, in this regard, also requests the Secretary-General to ensure that the necessary financial resources are provided for the implementation of the activities of the Third Decade during the biennium 1998-1999;

    22.	Also requests the Secretary-General, while programming the regular budget for the biennium 2000-2001, to make provision for financing the activities of the Programme of Action from the United Nations regular budget as a vital contribution to the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance;

    23.	Further requests the Secretary-General to submit each year to the Economic and Social Council a detailed report on all activities of United Nations bodies and the specialized agencies, containing an analysis of information received on such activities to combat racism and racial discrimination;


    24.	Invites the Secretary-General to submit proposals to the General Assembly with a view to supplementing, if necessary, the Programme of Action;

    25.	Warmly calls upon all Governments, United Nations bodies, the specialized agencies and  intergovernmental organizations, regional organizations and interested non-governmental organizations to contribute fully to the effective implementation of the Programme of Action;

    26.	Strongly appeals to all Governments, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations and individuals in a position to do so to contribute generously to the Trust Fund, and, to this end, requests the Secretary-General to continue to undertake appropriate contacts and initiatives to encourage contributions;


II

WORLD CONFERENCE AGAINST RACISM, RACIAL DISCRIMINATION, XENOPHOBIA AND RELATED INTOLERANCE

    27.	Reaffirms the decisions adopted in its resolution 52/111 of 12 December 1997 related to the convening, the definition of objectives and the guidelines for the preparatory process of the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance;

    28.	Takes note of Commission on Human Rights resolution 1998/26 of 17 April 1998,10 in which the Commission decided to create an open-ended working group to meet during its fifty-fifth session in order to review and formulate proposals for consideration by the Commission and possible forwarding to the Preparatory Committee for the World Conference at its first session;

    29.	Requests the Secretary-General:

    (a)	To present a comprehensive report to the General Assembly at both its fifty-fourth and fifty-fifth sessions on the progress achieved in the preparatory process of the World Conference;

    (b)	To submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session a report encompassing the final outcome of the World Conference;

    (c)	To designate the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights as Secretary-General of the World Conference, who, in that capacity, will assume the main responsibility for the preparations for the Conference;

    (d)	To consider providing the necessary financial and technical assistance for the convening of regional preparatory meetings;

    30.	Requests the High Commissioner:


    (a)	To carry out consultations with States aimed at determining the date and venue for the World Conference and to report to the Commission on Human Rights at its fifty-fifth session on the results thereof;

    (b)	To continue to devise and implement, with the Department of Public Information of the Secretariat, a world information campaign aimed at sensitizing public opinion to the importance and the objectives of the World Conference, to publish in all the official languages of the United Nations an information pamphlet to be made available to non-governmental organizations, the media and the general public and to inform the Preparatory Committee of developments in this regard;

    31.	Requests the Commission on Human Rights to present, through the Economic and Social Council, before the end of the fifty-third session of the General Assembly, a concrete proposal on the date and venue of the World Conference;

    32.	Invites States and regional organizations to set up at the national or regional level a coordination structure responsible for launching and promoting preparations for the World Conference, and especially for sensitizing national public opinion to the importance and the objectives of the Conference;

    33.	Urges the High Commissioner to help States, upon request, and regional organizations to convene national and regional meetings or to undertake other initiatives, including at the expert level, to prepare for the World Conference;

    34.	Requests the regional preparatory meetings to present to the Preparatory Committee, through the High Commissioner, reports on the results of their deliberations, with concrete and pragmatic recommendations aimed at combating racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, which will be duly reflected in the texts of the draft final documents of the World Conference, to be prepared by the Committee; 

    35.	Requests, in accordance with Commission on Human Rights resolution 1998/26,  Governments, the specialized agencies, other international organizations, concerned United Nations bodies, regional and non-governmental organizations, the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, the Subcommission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities of the Commission on Human Rights, the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and other human rights mechanisms to participate actively both in the preparatory process of the World Conference, including by assisting the Preparatory Committee, again in accordance with Commission resolution 1998/26, by, inter alia, undertaking reviews and studies and submitting recommendations concerning the Conference and the preparations therefor, through the Secretary-General, to the Preparatory Committee, and in the Conference itself;

    36.	Stresses the importance of systematically taking a gender perspective into account throughout the preparations for and in the outcome of the World Conference;







III

PROCLAMATION OF THE YEAR 2001 AS THE INTERNATIONAL YEAR OF MOBILIZATION AGAINST RACISM, RACIAL DISCRIMINATION, XENOPHOBIA AND RELATED INTOLERANCE

    37.	Decides to observe the year 2001 as the International Year of Mobilization against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, aimed at drawing the world's attention to the objectives of the World Conference and giving new momentum to the political commitment to the elimination of all forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance;


IV

GENERAL

    38.	Also decides to keep the item entitled "Elimination of racism and racial discrimination" on its agenda and to consider it as a matter of high priority at its fifty-fourth session.


	85th plenary meeting
	9 December 1998

1 Resolution 217 A (III).
2 Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.
3 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 429, No. 6193.
4 See Report of the World Conference to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination, Geneva, 14-25 August 1978 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.79.XIV.2).
5 See Report of the second World Conference to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination, Geneva, 1-12 August 1983 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.83.XIV.4 and corrigendum).
6 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.

7 A/53/305.
8 Resolution 45/158, annex.
9 E/CN.4/1998/77/Add.2.
10 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1998, Supplement No. 3 (E/1998/23), chap. II, sect. A.
[COMMENT1]
<<ODS JOB NO>>N9976921E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/53/132<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

A/RES/53/132
Page 2





99-76921	/...


99-76921	/...

A/RES/53/132
Page 


	A/RES/53/132
	Page 



	/...


	/...





