<<ODS JOB NO>>N9776555E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/51/170<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>

UNITED						A
NATIONS



			General Assembly



									Distr.
									GENERAL

									A/RES/51/170
									3 February 1997






Fifty-first session
Agenda item 95 (a)


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Second Committee (A/51/603)]


51/170.Industrial development cooperation

	The General Assembly,

	Recalling the Declaration on International Economic Cooperation, in particular the Revitalization of Economic Growth and Development of the Developing Countries,1 the International Development Strategy for the Fourth United Nations Development Decade,2 and the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s,3 

	Recalling also its resolution 49/108 of 19 December 1994 on industrial development cooperation,

	Taking note of the declaration adopted by the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the Group of 77 and China at their twentieth annual meeting, held in New York on 27 September 1996,4 the communiqué of the Meeting of Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Heads of Delegation of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries to the fifty-first session of the General Assembly, issued on 25 September 1996,5 the Midrand Declaration,6 adopted by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development at its ninth session, and the conclusions of the summit meeting of seven major industrialized countries, held at Lyon, France, from 27 to 29 June 1996,7 


	Noting the far-reaching implications of the process of globalization, trade liberalization and rapid technological change for the economic prospects of the developing countries and the economies in transition,

	Reaffirming the importance of promoting industrialization as an essential element in the sustained economic growth and sustainable development of developing countries, as well as in the eradication of poverty, facilitating social integration, the integration of women into the development process and the creation of productive employment,

	Stressing the need for enhanced international, regional and subregional cooperation in the field of industrial development and the important role played by the United Nations system, in particular the United Nations Industrial Development Organization, in this regard,

	Recognizing the increasing role of the business community, including the private sector, in enhancing the dynamic process of the development of the industrial sector,

	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;8 

	2.	Welcomes the major programme of reform and restructuring process undertaken by the United Nations Industrial Development Organization;

	3.	Reiterates the importance of cooperation and coordination within the United Nations system in providing effective support to the industrial development of the developing countries, and calls upon the United Nations Industrial Development Organization to continue carrying out its central coordinating role in the field of industrial development in the overall context of existing coordinating mechanisms in the United Nations system, inter alia, the Administrative Committee on Coordination and the resident coordinator system, so as to enhance the effectiveness, relevance and development impact of such support;

	4.	Emphasizes the importance of a favourable international and national environment for the industrialization of developing countries, and urges all Governments to adopt and implement development policies and strategies that promote, within a framework of transparent and accountable industrialization policies, inter alia, enterprise development, foreign direct investment, technological adaptation and innovation, expanded access to markets and the effective use of official development assistance to enable developing countries to enhance an environment attractive to investment so as to augment and supplement domestic resources for the expansion, diversification and modernization of their industrial productive capacity, in the context of an open, equitable, non-discriminatory, transparent, multilateral and rule-based international trading system;

	5.	Reiterates the importance of technology transfer to the developing countries as an effective means of international cooperation in the field of industrial development;

	6.	Recognizes the continuing use of official development assistance also for industrial development in the developing countries, and calls on the donor countries and the recipient countries to continue to cooperate in their efforts to achieve greater efficiency and effectiveness of official development assistance resources devoted to industrial development cooperation;

	7.	Welcomes, in addition, the use of innovative funding modalities, including, inter alia, co-financing schemes and trust funds, debt-equity swaps, as appropriate, and other debt relief measures, industrial joint venture schemes, enterprise-to-enterprise cooperation and venture capital funds for industrial development, in particular in the developing countries;

	8.	Calls upon the international community and the relevant organizations and bodies of the United Nations system, in particular the United Nations Industrial Development Organization, to support the efforts of the developing countries to intensify and expand industrial cooperation among themselves with respect to, among other things, trade in manufactured products, industrial investments and business partnerships, as well as industrial technology and scientific exchanges;

	9.	Requests the United Nations Industrial Development Organization, in cooperation with the relevant organizations of the United Nations system, to undertake, in the context of supporting South-South cooperation, an in-depth assessment and further analysis of best practices in the field of industrial policies and strategies and their relevance in particular regional and country situations, and lessons learned in the field of industrial development, so as to provide practical insights and ideas - such cooperation should better enable developing countries to benefit from each other's successful experiences in the formulation of their industrial policies and strategies - and also requests the United Nations Industrial Development Organization to submit a report thereon to the General Assembly at its fifty-third session;

	10.	Also requests the United Nations Industrial Development Organization to expand and enhance its interaction with the business community, including the private sector, in assisting the development of the industrial sector in the developing countries and economies in transition, in particular in the field of small and medium-sized enterprise development, and welcomes the creation by the United Nations Industrial Development Organization of the International Business Advisory Council;

	11.	Invites Member States and relevant organizations of the United Nations system to extend support to the successful implementation of the Alliance for Africa's Industrialization, launched on 23 October 1996 at Abidjan, by Governments of African countries and the private sector, which aims at accelerating the pace of Africa's industrialization through industrial capacity-building, including the agro-industrial field, and partnerships between Governments of African countries and the private sector at the national, subregional, regional and international levels;


	12.	Emphasizes the importance of the integration of the informal sector into industrial development cooperation, as well as the necessity for the development of human capacities, in particular strengthening women's economic capacity and providing business services to women;

	13.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-third session a report on the implementation of the present resolution.

	86th plenary meeting
	  16 December 1996
     1 Resolution S-18/3, annex.
     2 Resolution 45/199, annex.
     3 Resolution 46/151, annex, sect. II.
     4 A/51/471, annex.
     5 A/51/473-S/1996/839, annex;  see Official Records of the Security Council, Fifty-first Year, Supplement for October, November and December 1996, document S/1996/839.
     6 See A/51/308.
     7 See A/51/208-S/1996/543;  see Official Records of the Security Council, Fifty-first Year, Supplement for July, August and September 1996, document S/1996/543.
     8 A/51/340.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------



 

 


97-76555	/...


97-76555	/...

A/RES/51/170
Page 1



	A/RES/51/170
	Page 1




97-76555	/...


97-76555	/...

A/RES/51/170
Page 2



	A/RES/51/170
	Page 2




	/...


	/...

A/RES/51/170
Page 4



	A/RES/51/170
	Page 4







