[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 23 December 2004
[without reference to a Main Committee (A/59/L.33/Rev.1 and Add.1)]
		59/254.	New Partnership for Africa's Development: progress in implementation and international support


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 57/2 of 16 September 2002 on the United Nations Declaration on the New Partnership for Africa's Development,
	Recalling also its resolution 57/7 of 4 November 2002 on the final review and appraisal of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s and support for the New Partnership for Africa's Development and resolution 58/233 of 23 December 2003 entitled "New Partnership for Africa's Development: progress in implementation and international support",
	Bearing in mind that African countries have primary responsibility for their own economic and social development and that the role of national policies and development strategies cannot be overemphasized, also the need for their development efforts to be supported by an enabling international economic environment, and in this regard recalling the support given by the International Conference on Financing for Development to the New Partnership,1 
	Having considered the report of the Secretary-General entitled "New Partnership for Africa's Development: second consolidated report on progress in implementation and international support",2 
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;2 
	2.	Reaffirms its full support for the implementation of the New Partnership for Africa's Development;3
	3.	Also reaffirms its full support for the implementation of the Declaration of Commitment on HIV/AIDS, adopted at the twenty-sixth special session of the General Assembly on 27 June 2001;4
	4.	Recognizes the progress made in the implementation of the New Partnership as well as regional and international support for the New Partnership, while acknowledging that much needs to be done in the implementation of the New Partnership;
	5.	Welcomes the establishment of a Peace and Security Council within the African Union, stresses that conflict prevention, management and resolution and post-conflict consolidation are essential for the achievement of the objectives of the New Partnership, and welcomes, in this regard, the cooperation and support granted by the United Nations and development partners to the African regional and subregional organizations in the implementation of the New Partnership;

I
Actions by African countries and organizations
	6.	Welcomes the progress made by the African countries in fulfilling their commitments in the implementation of the New Partnership to deepen democracy, human rights, good governance and sound economic management, and encourages African countries, with the participation of stakeholders, including civil society and the private sector, to continue their efforts in this regard by developing and strengthening institutions for governance and the development of the region; 
	7.	Also welcomes the progress that has been achieved in implementing the African Peer Review Mechanism, including through the establishment of a trust fund to support the activities of the Mechanism, to which participating countries will make financial contributions, and the launching of support missions to several African countries; 
	8.	Further welcomes the efforts made by African countries in developing sectoral policy frameworks and implementing specific programmes of the New Partnership, including by establishing expenditure targets in sectoral priority areas of the New Partnership, and encourages them to continue to integrate the priorities of the New Partnership into their national development plans and frameworks, including poverty reduction strategies, where they exist; 
	9.	Emphasizes the importance for African countries of continuing to coordinate, on the basis of national strategies and priorities, all types of external assistance, including that provided by multilateral organizations, in order to integrate effectively such assistance into their development processes; 
	10.	Welcomes the commitment of African countries to advance the implementation of the New Partnership, acknowledges, in this regard, the role of the Heads of State and Government Implementation Committee of the New Partnership in furthering the implementation of the New Partnership, and welcomes the New Partnership summits held so far, as well as the upcoming summits; 
	11.	Also welcomes the approval by the Heads of State and Government Implementation Committee of the New Partnership of priority infrastructural and capacity-building projects to be implemented by the regional economic communities;  
	12.	Encourages the further integration of the priorities and objectives of the New Partnership into the programmes of the regional structures and organizations, as well as programmes for the African least developed countries; 
	13.	Appreciates the increasing efforts of African countries in mainstreaming a gender perspective and empowerment of women in the implementation of the New Partnership, and in this regard welcomes the Solemn Declaration on Gender Equality in Africa, adopted by the African Union at its third ordinary session in Addis Ababa from 6 to 8 July 2004,5 and encourages the African countries to track progress in the full integration of women into African social, political and economic life; 
	14.	Emphasizes that progress in the implementation of the New Partnership depends also on a favourable national and international environment for Africa's growth and development, including, inter alia, measures to promote a policy environment conducive to private sector development and entrepreneurship;

II
Response of the international community
	15.	Welcomes the efforts by development partners to strengthen cooperation with the New Partnership; 
	16.	Acknowledges the importance of various initiatives, such as the Tokyo International Conference on African Development process, the Africa Action Plan of the Group of Eight, initiated at Genoa, Italy, as developed at the Summit of the Group held in Kananaskis, Canada, in 2002, and furthered at their subsequent Summits held in Evian, France, in 2003, and at Sea Island, United States of America, in 2004, as well as the Africa Partnership Forum in support of the implementation of the New Partnership, emphasizes, in this regard, the importance of effective coordination of such initiatives for Africa, and looks forward to the forthcoming report of the Commission for Africa; 
	17.	Welcomes the contribution made by Member States to the implementation of the New Partnership in the context of South-South cooperation; 
	18.	Stresses the need to mobilize additional resources for Africa's development through promoting South-South cooperation and trade and investment as discussed at various forums, including the Asia-Africa Trade and Investment Conference, held in Tokyo on 1 and 2 November 2004, under the auspices of the Tokyo International Conference on African Development; 
	19.	Welcomes the financial support extended by many of the development partners to the various programmes of the New Partnership, and in this regard notes with satisfaction that some developed countries have committed resources for the infrastructure project preparation facility of the New Partnership and have provided resources for institutional strengthening activities at the secretariat of the New Partnership and in some regional economic communities;
	20.	Recalls that regional economic communities have a critical role to play in the implementation of the New Partnership, and encourages development partners to increase their support to enhance the capacities of these communities; 
	21.	Urges continued attention to the need to continue to take measures to address the challenges of poverty eradication and sustainable development in Africa, including, as appropriate, debt relief, improved market access, support for the private sector and entrepreneurship, enhanced official development assistance and increased flows of foreign direct investment, as well as transfer of technology; 
	22.	Reiterates the need for the international community, relevant multilateral institutions and developed countries to enhance coherence in their trade, investment, aid and debt policies towards African countries; 
	23.	Stresses the need to find comprehensive solutions for the debt problems of African countries, and in this regard welcomes the decision to extend the sunset clause of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative until 31 December 2006 and the ongoing work by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank to develop a forward-looking debt sustainability framework for heavily indebted poor countries and low-income countries; 
	24.	Welcomes the recent increase in official development assistance by many of the development partners, and urges all development partners to make continued efforts to increase the flows of all resources, public and private, to support the development of African countries and to improve the effectiveness of aid; 
	25.	Also welcomes efforts by development partners to align their financial and technical support to Africa more closely to the priorities of the New Partnership, as reflected in national poverty reduction strategies or in similar strategies, and encourages development partners to increase their efforts in this regard; 
	26.	Acknowledges the activities of the Bretton Woods institutions and the African Development Bank in African countries, and invites those institutions to continue their support for the implementation of the priorities and objectives of the New Partnership;
	27.	Requests the United Nations system to continue to provide assistance to the secretariat of the New Partnership and to African countries in developing projects and programmes within the scope of the priorities of the New Partnership;
	28.	Notes that the entities of the United Nations system have been actively using the regional consultation mechanism as a vehicle for fostering collaboration and coordination at the regional level, and encourages them to intensify their efforts in developing and implementing joint programmes in support of the New Partnership at the regional level;
	29.	Encourages the United Nations funds, programmes and specialized agencies to continue to strengthen further their existing coordination and programming mechanisms, as well as the simplification and harmonization of planning, disbursement and reporting procedures, as a means of enhancing support for African countries in the implementation of the New Partnership; 
	30.	Notes the growing collaboration among the entities of the United Nations system in support of the New Partnership, and requests the Secretary-General to promote greater coherence in the work of the United Nations system in support of the New Partnership, on the basis of the agreed clusters; 
	31.	Invites the High-level Plenary Meeting, which is to be held at the commencement of the sixtieth session of the General Assembly, in accordance with the modalities set by the Assembly at its fifty-ninth session, to address the special needs of African countries; 
	32.	Urges the Commission for Social Development and the Commission on the Status of Women to give prominence to the New Partnership in future priority themes;
	33.	Welcomes the establishment of the Secretary-General's Advisory Panel on International Support for the New Partnership for Africa's Development, and looks forward to its recommendations on the actions to be taken to enhance support for the implementation of the New Partnership;
	34.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue to take measures to strengthen the Office of the Special Adviser on Africa in order to enable it to effectively fulfil its mandate; 
	35.	Also requests the Secretary-General to submit a comprehensive report on the implementation of the present resolution to the General Assembly at its sixtieth session on the basis of inputs from Governments, organizations of the United Nations system and other stakeholders in the New Partnership, such as the private sector and civil society. 

76th plenary meeting
23 December 2004
1 See Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico,
18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
2 A/59/206.
3 A/57/304, annex.
4 Resolution S-26/2, annex.
5 See African Union, document Assembly/AU/Decl.12 & 13 (III).
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0449150E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/59/254<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

1
    

1

United NationsA/RES/59/254General AssemblyDistr.: General
3 March 2005Fifty-ninth session
Agenda item 38 (a)

04-49150

A/RES/59/254

A/RES/59/254

2

5

