[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 9 December 2003
[on the report of the Special Political and Decolonization Committee
(Fourth Committee) (A/58/472)]
58/95.	Assistance to Palestine refugees and support for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 212 (III) of 19 November 1948, on assistance to Palestine refugees, and 302 (IV) of 8 December 1949, by which, inter alia, it established the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East, 
	Recalling also all its subsequent resolutions on the question, including resolution 56/52 of 10 December 2001,
	Recalling further relevant Security Council resolutions, 
	Acknowledging the essential role that the Agency has played for more than fifty years since its establishment in ameliorating the plight of the Palestine refugees in the fields of education, health and relief and social services, 
	Aware of the continuing needs of Palestine refugees throughout all the fields of operation, namely the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, Jordan, Lebanon and the Syrian Arab Republic,
	Gravely concerned about the increased suffering of the Palestine refugees, including the loss of life, injury and destruction and damage to refugee shelters and properties, as well as the safety of the staff and the damage to the facilities of the Agency, 
	Regretting the death of six Agency staff members during the reporting period,
	Deeply concerned about the continuing restrictions on the freedom of movement of the Agency's staff, vehicles and goods, which adversely affect the ability of the Agency to provide its services, including its educational, health and relief and social services,
	Stressing the necessity for compliance with Articles 100, 104 and 105 of the Charter of the United Nations and the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations1 with regard to the safety of the personnel of the Agency, the protection of its institutions and the safeguarding of the security of its facilities, including throughout the occupied territories, 
	Stressing also the need for respect of international humanitarian law,
	Emphasizing the obligations of all parties in accordance with the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949,2 
	Having considered the report of the Commissioner-General of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East covering the period from 1 July 2002 to 30 June 2003,3 the report of the Working Group on the Financing of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East,4 the letter dated 25 September 2003 from the Chairperson of the Advisory Commission of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East addressed to the Commissioner-General,5 and the report of the United Nations Conciliation Commission for Palestine for the period from 1 September 2002 to 31 August 2003,6 
	Deeply concerned about the continuing financial situation of the Agency, which has affected and affects the continuing provision of necessary Agency services to Palestine refugees, including the emergency-related and humanitarian programmes, 
	1.	Affirms the necessity for the continuation of the work of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East and the importance of its operation and services for the well-being of the Palestine refugees and for the stability of the region, pending the resolution of the question of the Palestine refugees; 
	2.	Calls upon all States to make the most generous efforts possible to meet the anticipated needs of the Agency, including those mentioned in recent emergency appeals, and to support the Agency's valuable work in providing assistance to the Palestine refugees;
	3.	Takes note with approval of the report of the Working Group on the Financing of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East,4 for its efforts to assist in ensuring the financial security of the Agency, and requests the Secretary-General to provide the necessary services and assistance to the Working Group for the conduct of its work;
	4.	Endorses the efforts of the Commissioner-General of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East to continue to provide humanitarian assistance, as far as practicable, on an emergency basis and as a temporary measure, to persons in the area who are currently displaced and in serious need of continuing assistance as a result of the June 1967 and subsequent hostilities; 
	5.	Strongly appeals to all Governments and to organizations and individuals to contribute generously to the Agency and to the other intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations concerned for the above-mentioned purposes; 
	6.	Reiterates its previous appeals to all States, specialized agencies and non-governmental organizations to continue and to augment the special allocations for grants and scholarships to Palestine refugees, in addition to their contributions to the regular budget of the Agency; 
	7.	Appeals to all States, specialized agencies and other international bodies to extend assistance for higher education to Palestine refugee students and to contribute towards the establishment of vocational training centres for Palestine refugees, and requests the Agency to act as the recipient and trustee for the special allocations for grants and scholarships; 
	8.	Expresses its appreciation to the Commissioner-General of the Agency, as well as to all of the staff of the Agency, for their tireless efforts and valuable work, particularly in the light of the increasingly difficult conditions throughout the past year; 
	9.	Also expresses its appreciation to the Advisory Commission of the Agency, and requests it to continue its efforts and to keep the General Assembly informed of its activities, including the full implementation of Assembly decision 48/417 of 10 December 1993;
	10.	Commends the efforts of the Commissioner-General to increase the budgetary transparency and efficiency of the Agency, as well as the support of the host Governments for the Agency in the discharge of its duties; 
	11.	Calls upon all relevant parties to take effective measures to ensure the safety of the personnel of the Agency, the protection of its institutions and the safeguarding of the security of its facilities; 
	12.	Notes the success of the Agency's microfinance and enterprise programmes, and calls upon the Agency, in close cooperation with the relevant agencies, to continue to contribute towards the development of the economic and social stability of the Palestine refugees. 

72nd plenary meeting
9 December 2003
1 Resolution 22 A (I).
2 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, No. 973.
3 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 13 and corrigendum and addendum (A/58/13 and Corr.1 and Add.1).
4 A/58/450.
5 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 13 and corrigendum (A/58/13 and Corr.1), p. viii.
6 A/58/256, annex.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0345861E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/58/95<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

2
    

3

United NationsA/RES/58/95General AssemblyDistr.: General
17 December 2003Fifty-eighth session
Agenda item 83

03 45861

A/RES/58/95

A/RES/58/95

2

3

