[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 22 December 2005
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/60/488/Add.8)]
60/202.	Convention on Biological Diversity


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 55/201 of 20 December 2000, 56/197 of 21 December 2001, 57/253 and 57/260 of 20 December 2002, 58/212 of 23 December 2003 and 59/236 of 22 December 2004,
	Recalling also the 2005 World Summit Outcome,1
	Reiterating that the Convention on Biological Diversity2 is the key international instrument for the conservation and sustainable use of biological resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from the use of genetic resources,
	Taking note of the reports of the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment,3
	Recalling the commitments of the World Summit on Sustainable Development to pursue a more efficient and coherent implementation of the three objectives of the Convention and the achievement by 2010 of a significant reduction in the current rate of loss of biological diversity, which will require action at all levels, including the implementation of national biodiversity strategies and action plans and the provision of new and additional financial and technical resources to developing countries,
	Expressing its deep appreciation to the Government of Malaysia for hosting the seventh meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity and the first meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety, held in Kuala Lumpur from 9 to 20 and on 27 February, and from 23 to 27 February 2004, respectively,
	Expressing its deep appreciation also to the Government of Brazil for its offer to host the eighth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity and the third meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety, to be held in Curitiba from 20 to 31 March, and from 13 to 17 March 2006, respectively,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Executive Secretary of the Convention on Biological Diversity, transmitted by the Secretary-General to the General Assembly at its sixtieth session;4
	2.	Notes the recent progress made with respect to the achievement of the three objectives set out in the Convention on Biological Diversity;2
	3.	Urges all Member States to fulfil their commitments to significantly reduce the rate of loss of biodiversity by 2010, and emphasizes that this will require an appropriate focus on the loss of biodiversity in their relevant policies and programmes and the continued provision of new and additional financial and technical resources to developing countries, including through the Global Environmental Facility;
	4.	Reiterates the commitment of States parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity and the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety5 to support the implementation of the Convention and the Protocol, as well as other biodiversity-related agreements and the Johannesburg commitment for a significant reduction in the rate of loss of biodiversity by 2010, and to continue to negotiate within the framework of the Convention, bearing in mind the Bonn Guidelines,6 an international regime to promote and safeguard the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising out of the utilization of genetic resources; and reiterates also the resolve of all States to fulfil commitments and significantly reduce the rate of loss of biodiversity by 2010 and to continue ongoing efforts towards elaborating and negotiating an international regime on access to genetic resources and benefit-sharing;
	5.	Reaffirms the commitment, subject to national legislation, to respect, preserve and maintain the knowledge, innovations and practices of indigenous and local communities embodying traditional lifestyles relevant to the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity, promote their wider application with the approval and involvement of the holders of such knowledge, innovations and practices and encourage the equitable sharing of the benefits arising from their utilization;
	6.	Notes the holding of the tenth meeting of the Subsidiary Body on Scientific, Technical and Technological Advice of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity, as well as the meetings of the Ad Hoc Open-ended Working Group on Access to Genetic Resources and Benefit-sharing and the first meeting of the Ad Hoc Open-ended Working Group on Protected Areas;
	7.	Notes also the progress made at the second meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety and the continuing efforts made towards the implementation of the Protocol, and stresses that this will require the full support of parties and of relevant international organizations, in particular with regard to the provision of assistance to developing countries as well as countries with economies in transition in capacity-building for biosafety;
	8.	Invites the countries that have not yet done so to ratify or to accede to the Convention; 
	9.	Invites the parties to the Convention that have not yet ratified or acceded to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety to consider doing so;
	10.	Invites countries to consider ratifying or acceding to the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture;7
	11.	Encourages developed countries parties to the Convention to contribute to the relevant trust funds of the Convention, in particular so as to enhance the full participation of the developing countries parties in all of its activities;
	12.	Urges parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity to facilitate the transfer of technology for the effective implementation of the Convention in accordance with its provisions;
	13.	Takes note of the ongoing work of the liaison group of the secretariats and offices of the relevant subsidiary bodies of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change,8 the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa,9 and the Convention on Biological Diversity, and further encourages continuing cooperation in order to promote complementarities among the secretariats, while respecting their independent legal status;
	14.	Stresses the importance of reducing duplicative reporting requirements of the biodiversity-related conventions while respecting their independent legal status and their independent mandates;
	15.	Invites the States parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity to provide the new Executive Secretary of the Convention with full support for the fulfilment of his mandate and towards promoting the implementation of the Convention;
	16.	Invites the Executive Secretary of the Convention on Biological Diversity to continue reporting to the General Assembly on the ongoing work regarding the Convention, including its Cartagena Protocol;
	17.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-first session, under the item entitled "Sustainable development", the sub-item entitled "Convention on Biological Diversity".

68th plenary meeting
22 December 2005
1 See resolution 60/1.
2 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1760, No. 30619.
3 Available from www.millenniumassessment.org.
4 A/60/171, sect. III.
5 See UNEP/CBD/ExCOP/1/3 and Corr.1, part two, annex.
6 UNEP/CBD/COP/6/20, annex I, decision VI/24A.
7 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, Report of the Conference of FAO, Thirty-first Session, Rome, 2-13 November 2001 (C 2001/REP), appendix D. 
8 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1771, No. 30822.
9 Ibid., vol. 1954, No. 33480.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0549972E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/60/202<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/60/202General AssemblyDistr.: General
8 March 2006Sixtieth session
Agenda item 52 (h)

05-49972

A/RES/60/202

A/RES/60/202

2

3

