[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 20 December 2013
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/68/436/Add.1)]
68/199.	International trade and development
	The General Assembly, 
	Recalling its resolutions 56/178 of 21 December 2001, 57/235 of 20 December 2002, 58/197 of 23 December 2003, 63/203 of 19 December 2008, 66/185 of 22 December 2011 and 67/196 of 21 December 2012 on international trade and development, 
	Noting its resolutions 59/221 of 22 December 2004, 60/184 of 22 December 2005, 61/186 of 20 December 2006, 62/184 of 19 December 2007, 64/188 of 21 December 2009 and 65/142 of 20 December 2010 on international trade and development, 
	Recalling the United Nations Millennium Declaration,1 as well as the outcomes of the International Conference on Financing for Development2 and the World Summit on Sustainable Development,3 the 2005 World Summit Outcome4 and the Doha Declaration on Financing for Development: outcome document of the Follow-up International Conference on Financing for Development to Review the Implementation of the Monterrey Consensus,5 
	Recalling also the Conference on the World Financial and Economic Crisis and Its Impact on Development and its outcome document,6 
	Recalling further the high-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly on the Millennium Development Goals and its outcome document,7 
	Recalling the Fourth United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries and its outcome documents,8 
	Recalling also the thirteenth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, held in Doha from 21 to 26 April 2012, and its outcome documents,9 
	Recalling further the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development and its outcome document, entitled "The future we want",10 
	Reaffirming the value of multilateralism to the global trading system and the commitment to achieving a universal, rules-based, open, non-discriminatory and equitable multilateral trading system that contributes to growth, sustainable development and employment generation in all sectors, and emphasizing that bilateral and regional trading arrangements should contribute and be complementary to the goals of the multilateral trading system, 
	Reiterating that development concerns form an integral part of the Doha Development Agenda, which places the needs and interests of all developing countries, especially the least developed countries, at the heart of the Doha Work Programme of the World Trade Organization,11 
	Reaffirming that agriculture remains a fundamental and key sector for developing countries, and noting the importance of working towards eliminating all forms of protectionism and the commitments to comprehensive negotiations aimed at substantial improvement in market access, substantial reduction in trade-distorting national support and the parallel elimination of all forms of export subsidies and disciplines on all export measures with equivalent effect as provided in the mandate from the Doha Work Programme, the framework adopted by the General Council of the World Trade Organization on 1 August 2004 and the Hong Kong Ministerial Declaration adopted by the World Trade Organization in 2005, 
	Recalling the Marrakesh Ministerial Decision on Measures Concerning the Possible Negative Effects of the Reform Programme on Least Developed and Net Food-importing Developing Countries, 
	Recognizing the importance of competition policy and legislation in order to enhance the international competitiveness of developing countries, 
	Expressing deep concern about the ongoing adverse impacts, particularly on development, of the world financial and economic crisis, recognizing evidence of an uneven and fragile recovery, cognizant that the global economy, notwithstanding significant efforts that helped contain tail risks, improve financial market conditions and sustain recovery, still remains in a challenging phase, with downside risks, including high volatility in global markets, high unemployment, particularly among youth, indebtedness in some countries and widespread fiscal strains, which pose challenges for global economic recovery and reflect the need for additional progress towards sustaining and rebalancing global demand, and stressing the need for continuing efforts to address systemic fragilities and imbalances and to reform and strengthen the international financial system while implementing the reforms agreed upon to date, 
	Noting that, while some developing countries have been the main contributors to recent global economic growth, the economic crisis has reduced their capacity to withstand further shocks, recalling the commitments made to support development and strong, sustained, balanced and inclusive economic growth, and reaffirming the need to work cooperatively to meet development commitments to achieve the Millennium Development Goals by 2015, 
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Trade and Development Board12 and the report of the Secretary-General;13 
	2.	Reaffirms that international trade is an engine for development and sustained economic growth, and also reaffirms the critical role that a universal, rules-based, open, non-discriminatory and equitable multilateral trading system, as well as meaningful trade liberalization, can play in stimulating economic growth and development worldwide, thereby benefiting all countries at all stages of development; 
	3.	Emphasizes the need to resist protectionist tendencies and to rectify any trade-distorting measures that are inconsistent with World Trade Organization rules, recognizing the right of countries, in particular developing countries, to fully utilize flexibilities consistent with their World Trade Organization commitments and obligations; 
	4.	Expresses serious concern at the lack of progress in the Doha Round of World Trade Organization negotiations, reiterates the call for the necessary flexibility and political will in order to break the current impasse in the negotiations, and in this regard calls for a balanced, ambitious, comprehensive and development-oriented outcome of the Doha Development Agenda multilateral trade negotiations, in keeping with the development mandate of the Doha Ministerial Declaration,11 the decision of 1 August 2004 of the General Council of the World Trade Organization and the Hong Kong Ministerial Declaration adopted by the World Trade Organization in 2005; 
	5.	Recognizes the importance of the decisions of the Eighth Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization, held in Geneva from 15 to 17 December 2011, including the decision to allow members of the World Trade Organization to provide preferential treatment to services and suppliers from the least developed countries; 
	6.	Acknowledges that trade has an important role in ensuring the sustainable economic development of the least developed countries and that the international trade architecture should continue to be supportive of and responsive to the special needs and priorities of the least developed countries; 
	7.	Welcomes the appointment of the Director General of the World Trade Organization; 
	8.	Also welcomes the appointment of the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development; 
	9.	Further welcomes the convening of the Ninth Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization, in Bali, Indonesia, from 3 to 7 December 2013, and stresses the need for a balanced, ambitious, comprehensive and development-oriented outcome; 
	10.	Reaffirms the commitments made at the Fourth Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization relating to the least developed countries,11 and encourages developed countries, and developing countries declaring themselves in a position to do so, to take steps towards the goal of realizing the timely implementation of duty-free and quota-free market access on a lasting basis for all least developed countries, consistent with the Hong Kong Ministerial Declaration; 
	11.	Emphasizes the full, timely and effective implementation of the relevant provisions of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2011-2020;14 
	12.	Reaffirms the Marrakesh Ministerial Decision on Measures Concerning the Possible Negative Effects of the Reform Programme on Least Developed and Net Food-importing Developing Countries; 
	13.	Stresses the need to remove food export restrictions and extraordinary taxes on food purchased for non-commercial, humanitarian purposes by the World Food Programme and to not impose them in the future; 
	14.	Also stresses the need to increase investment from all sources in agriculture and rural development, including through the provision of technical and financial assistance, as appropriate, to the least developed and net food-importing developing countries, with a view to increasing their agricultural productivity and infrastructure; 
	15.	Recognizes the particular challenges that may be faced by small, vulnerable economies to fully benefit from the multilateral trading system in a manner commensurate with their special circumstances, and in this regard encourages progress in the implementation of the World Trade Organization work programme on small economies, as mandated in the 2001 Doha Ministerial Declaration and the 2005 Hong Kong Ministerial Declaration, which supports their efforts towards sustainable development; 
	16.	Stresses the need to identify and develop strategies to expand trade opportunities for women producers and facilitate the active participation of women in national, regional and global trade decision-making structures and processes, thereby ensuring that women- and men-owned businesses and farms have equal opportunities in markets; 
	17.	Reaffirms the commitment to address the special development needs of and the challenges faced by landlocked developing countries, and calls for the full, timely and effective implementation of the Almaty Programme of Action: Addressing the Special Needs of Landlocked Developing Countries within a New Global Framework for Transit Transport Cooperation for Landlocked and Transit Developing Countries,15 in accordance with the Declaration of the high-level meeting of the sixty-third session of the General Assembly on the midterm review of the Almaty Programme of Action;16 
	18.	Expresses concern about the adoption of unilateral actions that are not consistent with the rules of the World Trade Organization, harm the exports of all countries, in particular those of developing countries, and have a considerable bearing on the ongoing World Trade Organization negotiations and on the achievement and further enhancement of the development dimension of the trade negotiations; 
	19.	Notes the holding in Geneva from 8 to 10 July 2013 of the Fourth Global Review of Aid for Trade, aimed at reviewing progress achieved and identifying additional measures needed to support developing and least developed countries in building their supply and export capacities, and stresses the need to implement the aid-for-trade commitments, with sufficient focus on results and impact; 
	20.	Recognizes that South-South trade should be strengthened, notes that enhanced market access between developing countries can play a positive role in stimulating South-South trade, and in this regard, inter alia, takes note of the conclusion of the third round of the Global System of Trade Preferences among Developing Countries, by the adoption, on 15 December 2010, of the São Paulo Round Protocol; 
	21.	Reiterates the important role of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development as the focal point within the United Nations system for the integrated treatment of trade and development and interrelated issues in the areas of finance, technology, investment and sustainable development, invites the Conference to continue working to enhance its contribution in its three major pillars, namely, consensus-building, research and policy analysis and technical assistance, and calls upon the international community to work towards the strengthening of the Conference; 
	22.	Invites the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development to continue, in accordance with its mandate, to monitor and assess the evolution of the international trading system and of trends in international trade from a development perspective, and in particular to analyse issues of concern to developing countries, placing greater emphasis on practical solutions, to undertake policy analysis, including from a gender perspective, to work with all relevant stakeholders and to support developing countries in building productive national capacities and international competitiveness, including through technical assistance activities; 
	23.	Recognizes the role of the Enhanced Integrated Framework for Trade-related Technical Assistance to Least Developed Countries; 
	24.	Requests the Secretary-General, in collaboration with the secretariat of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, to submit to the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session a report on the implementation of the present resolution and developments in the multilateral trading system, including their impact on women and men, under the sub-item entitled "International trade and development" of the item entitled "Macroeconomic policy questions"; 
	25.	Also requests the Secretary-General to transmit the present resolution to the Director General of the World Trade Organization.

71st plenary meeting
20 December 2013

1 Resolution 55/2.
2 Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico, 18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, annex. 
3 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex, and resolution 2, annex. 
4 Resolution 60/1. 
5 Resolution 63/239, annex. 
6 Resolution 63/303, annex. 
7 Resolution 65/1. 
8 Report of the Fourth United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries, Istanbul, Turkey, 
9-13 May 2011 (A/CONF.219/7), chaps. I and II. 
9 See TD/500 and Corr.1 and Add.1 and 2. 
10 Resolution 66/288, annex. 
11 See A/C.2/56/7, annex. 
12 A/68/15 (Part I and Corr.1 and Add.1, Part II and Corr.1 and Parts III and IV). 
13 A/68/205. 
14 Report of the Fourth United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries, Istanbul, Turkey,
9-13 May 2011 (A/CONF.219/7), chap. II. 
15 Report of the International Ministerial Conference of Landlocked and Transit Developing Countries and Donor Countries and International Financial and Development Institutions on Transit Transport Cooperation, Almaty, Kazakhstan, 28 and 29 August 2003 (A/CONF.202/3), annex I. 
16 Resolution 63/2. 
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1345139E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/68/199<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

1
    

1

United NationsA/RES/68/199General AssemblyDistr.: General
15 January 2014Sixty-eighth session
Agenda item 17 (a)

13-45139
*1345139*Please recycle 

A/RES/68/199International trade and development

International trade and developmentA/RES/68/199

4/5

5/5

