[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/57/549)]
57/178.	Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 56/229 of 24 December 2001 and its previous resolutions on the elimination of discrimination against women, 
	Bearing in mind that one of the purposes of the United Nations, as stated in Articles 1 and 55 of the Charter, is to promote universal respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction of any kind, including distinction as to sex, 
	Affirming that women and men should participate equally in social, economic and political development, should contribute equally to such development and should share equally in improved conditions of life, 
	Recalling the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993,1 in which the Conference reaffirmed that the human rights of women and the girl child were an inalienable, integral and indivisible part of universal human rights,
	Acknowledging the need for a comprehensive and integrated approach to the promotion and protection of the human rights of women, which includes the integration of the human rights of women into the mainstream of United Nations activities system-wide,
	Reaffirming the commitments made in the political declaration2 and the outcome document3 of the special session of the General Assembly entitled "Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the twenty-first century", in particular paragraphs 68 (c) and (d) concerning the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women4 and the Optional Protocol thereto,5
	Recalling that, in the United Nations Millennium Declaration,6 heads of State and Government resolved to implement the Convention,
	Recognizing that the equal enjoyment by women of all human rights will promote the realization of the rights of the child, bearing in mind the special needs of girls, and acknowledging the mutual reinforcement of the implementation of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the Convention on the Rights of the Child7 and the Optional Protocols thereto,8
	Welcoming the progress made in the implementation of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, but expressing concern about the remaining challenges,
	Welcoming also the growing number of States parties to the Convention, which now stands at one hundred and seventy, 
	Welcoming further the entry into force on 22 December 2000 of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,
	Bearing in mind the recommendation of the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women that national reports should contain information on the implementation of the Beijing Platform for Action,9 in accordance with paragraph 323 of the Platform,
	Having considered the report of the Committee on its twenty-sixth and twenty-seventh sessions,10
	Expressing concern at the great number of reports that are overdue and that continue to be overdue, in particular initial reports, which constitutes an obstacle to the full implementation of the Convention,
	1.	Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General11 on the status of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women;4
	2.	Expresses disappointment that universal ratification of the Convention was not achieved by 2000, and urges all States that have not yet ratified or acceded to the Convention to do so;
	3.	Emphasizes the importance of full compliance by States parties with their obligations under the Convention and the Optional Protocol thereto;5
	4.	Welcomes the rapidly growing number of States parties to the Optional Protocol, which now stands at forty-nine, and urges other States parties to the Convention to consider signing and ratifying or acceding to the Optional Protocol; 
	5.	Also welcomes the holding and successful outcome of the first informal meeting of States parties, held in New York on 17 June 2002; 
	6.	Further welcomes the fact that the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women has adopted the rules governing its work under the Optional Protocol as part of its revised rules of procedure;12
	7.	Notes that some States parties have modified their reservations, expresses satisfaction that some reservations have been withdrawn, and urges States parties to limit the extent of any reservations that they lodge to the Convention, to formulate any such reservations as precisely and as narrowly as possible, to ensure that no reservations are incompatible with the object and purpose of the Convention, to review their reservations regularly with a view to withdrawing them and to withdraw reservations that are contrary to the object and purpose of the Convention; 
	8.	Welcomes the adoption by the Committee of revised reporting guidelines,13 in particular on the length of reports of States parties and the streamlining of their structure and content;
	9.	Recalls the great number of overdue reports, in particular initial reports, and urges States parties to the Convention to make every possible effort to submit their reports on the implementation of the Convention in a timely manner in accordance with article 18 thereof; 
	10.	Encourages the Secretariat to extend further technical assistance to States parties, upon their request, in the preparation of reports, in particular initial reports, and invites Governments to contribute to these efforts; 
	11.	Invites States parties to make use of the technical assistance provided by the Secretariat to facilitate the preparation of reports, in particular initial reports; 
	12.	Expresses its satisfaction that the Committee has addressed successfully the large number of reports that awaited consideration by the Committee during the extraordinary session held from 5 to 23 August 2002; 
	13.	Commends the Committee on its contributions to the effective implementation of the Convention;
	14.	Strongly urges States parties to the Convention to take appropriate measures so that acceptance of the amendment to article 20, paragraph 1, of the Convention by a two-thirds majority of States parties can be reached as soon as possible so that the amendment may enter into force; 
	15.	Expresses its appreciation for the efforts made by the Committee to improve the efficiency of its working methods and for the holding, in Lund, Sweden, from 22 to 24 April 2002, of the seminar on the working methods of the Committee, and encourages the Committee to continue its efforts in this regard; 
	16.	Also expresses its appreciation for the participation of the Committee in the first inter-committee meeting of the human rights treaty bodies on methods of work relating to the State reporting process, held in Geneva from 26 to 28 June 2002;
	17.	Encourages the Committee, within its mandate, to continue to contribute to the efforts to strengthen cooperation and coordination between the treaty bodies; 
	18.	Requests the Secretary-General, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 54/4 of 6 October 1999, to provide the resources, including staff and facilities, necessary for the effective functioning of the Committee within its full mandate, taking into account in particular the entry into force of the Optional Protocol; 
	19.	Urges Governments, organizations and bodies of the United Nations system and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to disseminate the Convention and the Optional Protocol thereto; 
	20.	Encourages all relevant entities of the United Nations system, within their mandates, as well as Governments, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations and, in particular, women's organizations, as appropriate, to continue to assist States parties, upon their request, in implementing the Convention, and in this regard encourages States parties to pay attention to the concluding comments as well as the general recommendations of the Committee; 
	21.	Encourages all relevant entities of the United Nations system to continue to build women's knowledge and understanding of and capacity to utilize human rights instruments, in particular the Convention and the Optional Protocol thereto; 
	22.	Welcomes the submission by the specialized agencies, at the invitation of the Committee, of reports on the implementation of the Convention in areas falling within the scope of their activities and the contribution of non-governmental organizations to the work of the Committee, and encourages the specialized agencies to continue to submit reports; 
	23.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session a report on the status of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the implementation of the present resolution.

77th plenary meeting
18 December 2002
1 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
2 Resolution S-23/2, annex.
3 Resolution S-23/3, annex.
4 Resolution 34/180, annex.
5 Resolution 54/4, annex.
6 See resolution 55/2.
7 Resolution 44/25, annex.
8 Resolution 54/263, annexes I and II.
9 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
10 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 38 (A/57/38).
11 A/57/406 and Corr.1.
12 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 38 (A/56/38), annex I.
13 Ibid., Fifty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 38 (A/57/38), annex.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0254991E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/57/178<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

2
    

3

United NationsA/RES/57/178General AssemblyDistr.: General
23 January 2003Fifty-seventh session
Agenda item 102

02 54991

A/RES/57/178

A/RES/57/178

2

3

