[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 23 December 2003
[without reference to a Main Committee (A/58/L.17/Rev.1 and Add.1)]
		58/233.	New Partnership for Africa's Development: progress in implementation and international support


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 57/2 of 16 September 2002 on the United Nations Declaration on the New Partnership for Africa's Development, 
	Recalling also its resolution 57/7 of 4 November 2002 on the final review and appraisal of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s1 and support for the New Partnership for Africa's Development,2
	Recalling further its resolution 57/297 of 20 December 2002 on the Second Industrial Development Decade for Africa, 
	Mindful of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2001-2010,3 the Declaration of Commitment on HIV/AIDS,4 the Doha Ministerial Declaration,5 the Monterrey Consensus of the International Conference on Financing for Development6 and the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation"),7
	Noting with appreciation the commitment of the international community in its support of the New Partnership, and welcoming in this regard the outcome of the third Tokyo International Conference on African Development,
	Noting with appreciation also that the Group of Eight summit in Evian, France, in June 2003 devoted a significant part of its deliberations to the New Partnership, welcoming in this regard the endorsement of the report on the implementation of the Group of Eight Africa Action Plan, and also welcoming the inaugural meeting, in Paris in November 2003, of the Africa Partnership Forum in support of the New Partnership,
	Having considered the report of the Secretary-General entitled "The New Partnership for Africa's Development: first consolidated report on progress in implementation and international support",8
	1.	Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General;8
	2.	Reaffirms its full support for the implementation of the New Partnership for Africa's Development;2 
	3.	Recognizes the progress made in the implementation of the New Partnership and regional and international support for the New Partnership; 
	4.	Also recognizes that much needs to be done to achieve the objectives of the New Partnership, particularly with regard to economic growth and poverty reduction; 
	5.	Reaffirms that the international community, Africa and its development partners should further cooperate with one another to achieve the objectives and priorities of the New Partnership, on the basis of the principles of ownership and partnership; 
	6.	Calls upon Member States and the international community, and invites the United Nations system, to enhance their support for the implementation of the New Partnership, in accordance with its principles, objectives and priorities; 

I
Action by African countries and organizations
	7.	Notes with satisfaction efforts made by the African countries in fulfilling their commitments, in implementation of the New Partnership for Africa's Development, to deepen democracy, human rights, good governance and sound economic management, and encourages African countries to continue to strengthen their efforts in this regard by developing and strengthening institutions for governance and the development of the region;
	8.	Welcomes the efforts of African countries in the management and resolution of conflicts in the region, in particular their determination to establish a Peace and Security Council within the African Union, African mediation in a number of conflicts and the efforts of the African Union and African regional organizations to develop their capabilities for peace-support operations; 
	9.	Takes note of the adoption of the Memorandum of Understanding on the African Peer Review Mechanism, signed in Abuja on 9 March 2003, and welcomes in this regard the progress made with respect to the Mechanism, in particular the accession of a number of States members of the African Union and the appointment of the panel of eminent persons, and encourages other States members of the African Union to accede to the Mechanism as well; 
	10.	Welcomes the priorities identified in the New Partnership and the progress made in the development of programmes in the areas of agricultural development, environment and infrastructure development, as well as the ongoing work in the areas of health and education and science and technology; 
	11.	Also welcomes the efforts of African countries to fulfil their commitments to promote gender equality, the empowerment of women and the mainstreaming of gender perspectives in the implementation of the New Partnership; 
	12.	Further welcomes the adoption by the African Union in Maputo, on 12 July 2003, of the Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Corruption;9
	13.	Encourages African countries to take further concrete steps to deepen the process of integrating the priorities of the New Partnership into their national development plans and frameworks, including poverty reduction strategies, where they exist, to mobilize public and political support for the New Partnership, to develop sound programmes in the designated priority areas of the New Partnership and to mobilize resources for those priority areas; 
	14.	Emphasizes the role of national focal points in monitoring the implementation of the New Partnership and the need to build and strengthen human and institutional capacities in order to effectively implement it in all its aspects; 
	15.	Also emphasizes that regional economic communities are effective vehicles for the development and integration of the African continent, and in this regard calls for the strengthening of their role in the coordination and implementation of programmes and projects of the New Partnership at the subregional level; 
	16.	Encourages the further integration of the priorities and objectives of the New Partnership into the programmes of the regional structures and organizations, as well as programmes for the African least developed countries; 
	17.	Calls upon African countries to promote the development and strengthening of their domestic private sectors and to facilitate their effective involvement in the growth and development of, and economic integration among, the African economies; 
	18.	Recognizes the efforts of African countries to raise awareness of the New Partnership and to involve all African stakeholders, namely, Governments, the private sector and civil society, including women's organizations and community-based organizations, in its implementation; 
	19.	Welcomes the decision taken by the Executive Council of the African Union in Maputo to integrate the New Partnership into the African Union structures and processes; 

II
Action by the international community
	20.	Welcomes the pledges of increased official development assistance made by many of the development partners, also welcomes the contributions that have been made, and urges that partners take steps to continue to disburse the assistance they have pledged; 
	21.	Notes with satisfaction that some developed countries have untied their official development assistance, and encourages countries that have not yet done so to untie their aid, in accordance with the relevant recommendation of the Development Assistance Committee of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development;
	22.	Calls upon the international community, relevant multilateral institutions and developed countries to enhance coherence in their trade, investment and aid policies towards African countries; 
	23.	Stresses the need to find a durable solution to the problem of external indebtedness of heavily indebted poor countries in Africa, including through debt cancellation and other arrangements, and the need to encourage innovative mechanisms to comprehensively address the debt problem of low- and middle-income African countries, bearing in mind that external debt relief can release resources that may be utilized in the successful implementation of the New Partnership for Africa's Development, taking into account initiatives that have been taken to reduce outstanding indebtedness and the need to pursue debt relief measures vigorously and expeditiously, including within the context of the Paris Club, the London Club and other relevant forums;
	24.	Welcomes the actions taken by creditor countries within the framework of the Paris Club and by some creditor countries through the cancellation of bilateral debts, urges all creditor countries to participate in efforts to remedy the external debt and debt-servicing problems of African countries, notes the Evian Approach of the Paris Club of October 2003, and also notes that debt relief does not replace alternative sources of financing; 
	25.	Encourages developed countries and other partners to support the promotion of private investment in African countries from their countries, in particular in the key productive sectors of the economy, to provide investment guarantees for such investment and to support policies of African countries aimed at promoting a conducive environment to attract foreign investment; 
	26.	Underlines the need to take concrete steps to implement existing frameworks and programmes of South-South cooperation, including through triangular cooperation in support of the New Partnership; 
	27.	Acknowledges the activities in African countries of the Bretton Woods institutions and of the African Development Bank, and encourages them to continue their support for the implementation of the priorities and objectives of the New Partnership;
	28.	Notes the growing collaboration among the entities of the United Nations system in support of the New Partnership, and requests the Secretary-General to promote greater coherence in the work of the United Nations system in support of the New Partnership, on the basis of the agreed clusters; 
	29.	Calls upon the United Nations funds, programmes and specialized agencies to strengthen further their existing coordination and programming mechanisms, as well as the simplification and harmonization of planning, disbursement and reporting procedures, as a means of enhancing support for African countries in the implementation of the New Partnership;
	30.	Notes that the entities of the United Nations system have been actively using the regional consultation mechanism as a vehicle for fostering collaboration and coordination at the regional level, and encourages them to intensify their efforts in developing and implementing joint programmes in support of the New Partnership at the regional level; 
	31.	Requests the United Nations system to continue to provide assistance to the secretariat of the New Partnership and to African countries in developing projects and programmes within the scope of the priorities of the New Partnership; 
	32.	Welcomes the cooperation and the support granted by the United Nations to the African regional and subregional organizations in conflict prevention and conflict management, takes note with appreciation of the work carried out by the Economic and Social Council ad hoc advisory groups on African countries emerging from conflict, while looking forward to the evaluation of their work during the substantive session of the Council in 2004, and encourages the pursuit of these activities in support of African efforts for conflict prevention and conflict management and in post-conflict situations; 
	33.	Also welcomes the creation of the Office of the Special Adviser on Africa, and requests the Secretary-General to continue to take measures to strengthen the Office to enable it to effectively fulfil its mandate; 
	34.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit a comprehensive report on the implementation of the present resolution to the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session on the basis of inputs from Governments, organizations of the United Nations system and the other stakeholders in the New Partnership for Africa's Development, such as the private sector and civil society.

78th plenary meeting
23 December 2003
1 Resolution 46/151, annex.
2 A/57/304, annex.
3 See A/CONF.191/13, chap. II.
4 Resolution S-26/2, annex.
5 A/C.2/56/7, annex.
6 Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico, 
18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
7 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 
26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 2, annex.
8 A/58/254.
9 See A/58/626, annex I, Assembly/AU/Dec.27 (II).
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0350850E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/58/233<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

2
    

3

United NationsA/RES/58/233General AssemblyDistr.: General
23 February 2004Fifty-eighth session
Agenda item 39 (a)

03 50850

A/RES/58/233

A/RES/58/233

2

5

