[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 23 December 2003
[on the report of the Fifth Committee (A/58/573)]
58/270.	Questions relating to the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2004-2005


	The General Assembly,
	Reaffirming its resolutions 41/213 of 19 December 1986, 42/211 of 21 December 1987, 45/248 B, section  VI, of 21 December 1990 and 56/253 of 24 December 2001,
	Recalling its resolutions 57/280 and 57/282 of 20 December 2002,
	Recalling also its resolutions 57/292 of 20 December 2002 and 57/311 of 18 June 2003,
	Reaffirming the respective mandates of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions and the Committee for Programme and Coordination in the context of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2004-2005,
	Having considered the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2004-20051 and the relevant reports of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions2 and the Committee for Programme and Coordination3 thereon,
	1.	Reaffirms that the Fifth Committee is the appropriate Main Committee of the General Assembly entrusted with responsibilities for administrative and budgetary matters;
	2.	Also reaffirms rule 153 of its rules of procedure;
	3.	Further reaffirms the Regulations and Rules Governing Programme Planning, the Programme Aspects of the Budget, the Monitoring of Implementation and the Methods of Evaluation4 and the Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nations;5
	4.	Welcomes the timely submission of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2004-2005;1
	5.	Endorses the conclusions and recommendations of the Committee for Programme and Coordination on the programme narratives of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2004-2005 contained in the report of the Committee on the work of its forty-third session,3 subject to the provisions of the present resolution, as reflected in annex I;
	6.	Approves the programme narratives of section 14, Environment, and section 24, Human rights, as also reflected in annex I;
	7.	Endorses the conclusions and recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions concerning posts and non-post resources contained in its report on the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2004-2005,6 subject to the provisions of the present resolution;
	8.	Decides that a vacancy rate of 5.5 per cent for Professional staff and 3.8 per cent for General Service staff shall be used as a basis for the calculation of the budget for the biennium 2004-2005;
	9.	Also decides to maintain the current practice of recosting for the forthcoming biennium, except with respect to section 23, Regular programme of technical cooperation, of the proposed programme budget, to which recosting should not be applied;
	10.	Further decides to revert to the question of recosting at its fifty-ninth session in the context of the first performance report on the programme budget for the biennium 2004-2005, and in this regard requests the Secretary-General to include in that report information on the variation between the projected recosting needs arising from inflation and currency movements as at October 2003 and at the time of the preparation of the report;
	11.	Requests the Board of Auditors, in consultation with the Secretary-General, to examine the recosting methodology and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session, including proposing the most appropriate mechanism for managing the currency aspects of the recosting methodology;
	12.	Notes the observations of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions related to the concept of managing the staffing table as a whole, contained in paragraphs 73 to 78 and 143 of its report;6
	13.	Reaffirms paragraph 35 of its resolution 57/300 of 20 December 2002;
	14.	Requests the Secretary-General, during the course of the programme budget for the biennium 2004-2005, to commence, on an experimental basis, with the redeployment of posts as necessary to meet the evolving needs of the Organization in attaining its mandated programmes and activities, in accordance with the following principles:
	(a)	The experiment shall be limited to the redeployment of up to 50 posts Organization-wide;
	(b)	The experiment shall not imply any change in the human resources management policies of the Organization;
	(c)	The proposed programme budget shall remain the principal instrument in which the Secretary-General sets out the resources and staffing requirements of the Organization;
	(d)	The authority to redeploy posts shall in no way prevent the Secretary-General from requesting additional posts during the course of the experiment;
	(e)	The experiment shall not exacerbate high vacancy rates in any budget sections;
	(f)	The experiment shall not apply to language services;
	(g)	Redeployment between sections shall be carried out only after all possibilities of using resources available within budget sections that will benefit from the transfer have been exhaustively explored;
	(h)	The experiment shall not be implemented as a result of General Assembly resolutions calling for the implementation of decisions "within existing resources";
	(i)	Reporting to the General Assembly shall be carried out in the context of the annual budget performance reports;
	(j)	The Secretary-General is requested to provide information periodically to the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions on actions taken;
	15.	Also requests the Secretary-General to ensure that the experiment shall in no way limit opportunities for external recruitment for posts at any level;
	16.	Further requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its resumed fifty-ninth session on the implications of the experiment for human resources management policies;
	17.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit, through the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions, a comprehensive report for consideration by the General Assembly at its sixtieth session on the progress of and lessons learned from the experiment, including the following aspects:
	(a)	Implications for the relevant financial regulations and rules of the Organization;
	(b)	Additional implications, if any, for human resources management policies;
	(c)	Constraints encountered by the Secretary-General in exercising the flexibility granted to him in General Assembly resolutions 48/228 C of 29 July 1994 and 50/214 of 23 December 1995, as well as in regulation 5.6 of the Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nations;5
	(d)	Measures to ensure that such a policy will not have any negative impact on sections with high vacancy rates;
	(e)	An elaboration of the elements requested in paragraph 35 of its resolution 57/300;
	(f)	Recommendations concerning the possible application of this approach to managing the staffing table in future;
	18.	Decides that the staffing table for each year of the biennium 2004-2005 shall be as set out in annex II to the present resolution;
	19.	Also decides, notwithstanding the proposal of the Secretary-General and the recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions, to approve new posts to be funded from the regular budget for the biennium 2004-2005, as set out in annex III to the present resolution;
	20.	Recalls paragraphs 8 and 9 of its resolution 57/300, and in this regard notes the proposal of the Secretary-General in his report on the administration and management of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights7 regarding the establishment of two posts, one P-5 and one P-4, under subprogramme 2, as well as two posts, one D-1 and one P-4, under subprogramme 3 of section 24, Human rights, of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2004-2005 related to the implementation of actions 3 and 4 of his report entitled "Strengthening of the United Nations: an agenda for further change";8
	21.	Decides to establish the above-mentioned posts, as set out in annex III to the present resolution;
	22.	Also decides to consider this issue further in the context of the decisions of the relevant intergovernmental bodies on the issues referred to in paragraphs 8 and 9 of resolution 57/300;
	23.	Further decides to reclassify four P-4 posts to the P-5 level, one in section 15, Human settlements, one in section 17, International drug control, and two in section 22, Economic and social development in Western Asia, one D-1 post to the D-2 level in section 30, Internal oversight, and one D-2 post to the Assistant Secretary-General level in section 27, Humanitarian assistance;
	24.	Decides to approve the post conversions requested by the Secretary-General and recommended by the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions, as set out in annex IV to the present resolution, with the exception of two posts, one P-4 and one P-3, that had been proposed for conversion to section 5, Peacekeeping operations, from the Voluntary Trust Fund for Assistance in Mine Action;
	25.	Requests the Secretary-General to suspend recruitment action for new vacancies in General Service posts for the biennium 2004-2005, with the exception of safety and security personnel and editorial assistants (text processors) in language functions, and to report on the progress made and on the impact of those measures in the context of his performance reports;
	26.	Decides to abolish six General Service posts, three in the Department of Economic and Social Affairs of the Secretariat and three in the Economic Commission for Europe;
	27.	Also decides to reduce further, by 3.2 million United States dollars, the proposed provision for restoration of common services;
	28.	Further decides to reduce the provision for general temporary assistance by 2.5 million dollars;
	29.	Decides that the reduction described in paragraph 28 above should not be applied to section 2, General Assembly affairs and conference services;
	30.	Also decides to reduce by 2 million dollars the provision for overtime and night differential, as set out in paragraph 84 of the first report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions on the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2004-2005,6 further decides that the relevant reductions should not be applied to security operations, and invites the Secretary-General to elaborate on resource needs for overtime and night differential in the context of his first budget performance report;
	31.	Requests the Secretary-General to discontinue the practice of paying higher subsistence rates to middle- and senior-level United Nations staff members;
	32.	Decides to reduce the total appropriation for publications by 400,000 dollars;
	33.	Also decides to maintain provisions for the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization at the level recommended by the Secretary-General;
	34.	Further decides to appropriate an amount of 38,200 dollars, under section 9, Economic and social affairs, requested for the preparation of Executive Committee papers on common strategic policy issues and/or support for the Committee's work on publications in advancing the Millennium Development Goals;
	35.	Decides to appropriate an amount of 78,500 dollars, under section 9, Economic and social affairs, requested under subprogramme 2 for consultants and experts;
	36.	Also decides to defer the appropriation of the budgetary provisions for the Joint Inspection Unit for 2005;
	37.	Further decides to appropriate an amount of 1,858,600 dollars for consultants and experts for the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development;
	38.	Decides to appropriate an amount of 56,731,900 dollars for the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees for the biennium 2004-2005;
	39.	Also decides to reduce the allocation for United Nations information centres by 2 million dollars;
	40.	Further decides to defer consideration of 590,000 dollars for a network back-up system at the United Nations Office at Geneva until such time as all viable alternatives have been explored and reported to the General Assembly;
	41.	Decides to restore an amount of 105,200 dollars under section 28, Public information, for supplies and materials under outreach services;
	42.	Recalls its decision 57/579 of 20 December 2002, and requests the Secretary-General to continue to strengthen the United Nations web site through further redeployment to the required language posts and to report on the status of its implementation to the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session;
	43.	Decides to consider the proposal of the Secretary-General regarding the transfer of the technical secretariats of the Fifth and Sixth Committees at its fifty-ninth session, with a view to taking a decision in the context of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2006-2007;
	44.	Recalls its resolution 57/24 of 19 November 2002 and regulation 5.6 and the criteria set forth in rule 105.6 (a) of the Regulations and Rules Governing Programme Planning, the Programme Aspects of the Budget, the Monitoring of Implementation and the Methods of Evaluation,4 and requests the Secretary-General to report, in the context of his first performance report, on the possibilities for absorptions or the mobilization of extrabudgetary resources for the Repertory of Practice of the United Nations Organs;
	45.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session on improving the implementation of regulation 5.6 and rule 105.6  of the Regulations and Rules Governing Programme Planning;
	46.	Also requests the Secretary-General to continue to implement the information and communication technology strategy and to provide to the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session a progress report on the impact of investments in information and communication technology;
	47.	Further requests the Secretary-General to review the structure and functions of all liaison or representation offices in New York of organizations headquartered elsewhere funded from the regular budget and to report to the General Assembly at its resumed fifty-eighth session on possibilities for improving their effectiveness;
	48.	Requests the Secretary-General to undertake a fundamental and comprehensive review of the regular programme of technical cooperation and to make appropriate proposals to the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session;
	49.	Also requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session a proposal for the progressive implementation of article 20 of the statute of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees with a view to its full implementation;
	50.	Further requests the Secretary-General to conduct, through the Office of Internal Oversight Services, a review of the operation and management of United Nations libraries, with a view to assessing staffing requirements for those libraries in the light of technological advances in the delivery of information services, and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session;
	51.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session on proposals for developing a more robust capability within the Office of Human Resources Management of the Secretariat to enable it to reduce the level of underrepresentation of Member States and the number of unrepresented Member States;
	52.	Also requests the Secretary-General to entrust the Office of Internal Oversight Services with the task of conducting a study on the availability in local labour markets of the skills for which international recruitment for posts in the General Service category now takes place and to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session on the findings and their implications;
	53.	Reaffirms the provisions of paragraph 5 of General Assembly resolution 57/307 of 15 April 2003, requests the Secretary-General to ensure the independence of the United Nations Administrative Tribunal and the separation of its secretariat from the Office of Legal Affairs of the Secretariat, and also requests the Secretary-General to submit to it at its fifty-ninth session the report on the financial independence of the Tribunal requested in the above-mentioned resolution;
	54.	Requests the Secretary-General to report on further progress made to increase the capacity of the Economic Commission for Africa to communicate and transmit data electronically in the context of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 
2006-2007;
	55.	Reaffirms paragraphs 15 and 17 of its resolution 57/300, in particular where the General Assembly requests the Secretary-General, with assistance from the Office of Internal Oversight Services, to proceed as quickly as possible to conduct a systematic evaluation of the impact, efficiency and cost-effectiveness of all activities of the Department of Public Information, and to report on progress made to the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session through the Committee on Information and the Fifth Committee;
	56.	Also reaffirms that the Official Document System of the United Nations, as an archival and retrieval system of official documents, should cover the entire Organization, including the United Nations Office at Nairobi and all regional commissions, and in this regard requests the Secretary-General to pursue vigorous implementation and to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session on the progress made;
	57.	Emphasizes the priority it attaches to the necessity of improving and modernizing the conference facilities at the United Nations Office at Nairobi, and in this regard requests the Secretary-General to keep under review the issue of the construction of additional facilities at the Office and to report thereon to the General Assembly in the context of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2006-2007, in the light of experience gained from operating the modernized conference facilities;
	58.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit a comprehensive report to the Assembly at its fifty-ninth session addressing possible measures to improve the performance of the Development Account, including ways and means aimed at bringing a more focused approach to project formulation, complementarity, implementation and evaluation, as well as to make proposals on increasing its funding in accordance with General Assembly resolutions 52/12 B of 19 December 1997 and 54/15 of 29 October 1999.

79th plenary meeting
23 December 2003

Annex I
Changes to the programme narratives of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2004-20051 as reflected in the conclusions and recommendations of the Committee for Programme and Coordination at its forty-third session3 and additional modifications


Section 1
Overall policy-making, direction and coordination
Table 1.21
	Under indicator of achievement (e) (i), after "of the Secretary-General's reform", insert "as mandated by General Assembly resolutions", bearing in mind the provisions of Article 97 of the Charter of the United Nations.

Table 1.34
	Add an indicator of achievement (a), reading: "(a) The number of conflicts referred to the Ombudsman for which the Ombudsman facilitated a resolution"; and insert "(b)" before the existing indicator.

Section 2
General Assembly affairs and conference services
Tables 2.15, 2.17, 2.19, 2.22, 2.24, 2.26, 2.33, 2.35, 2.41 and 2.43

	In table 2.15, add the entry "(d) Increased productivity" under both Expected accomplishments and Indicators of achievement.
	In tables 2.17, 2.19 and 2.26, add the entry "(b) Increased productivity" under both Expected accomplishments and Indicators of achievement.
	In table 2.22, add the entry "(e) Increased productivity" under both Expected accomplishments and Indicators of achievement.
	In tables 2.24, 2.33, 2.35, 2.41 and 2.43, add the entry "(c) Increased productivity" under both Expected accomplishments and Indicators of achievement.

Table 2.9
	Add an expected accomplishment (c), reading: "(c) Improvement of conference service performance in New York and all other duty stations".
	Add an indicator of achievement (c), reading:
	"(c)	 (i)	Optimization of use of technology in key processes;
		"(ii)	Updated proposals for workload standards, efficiency and related performance indicators;
		"(iii)	Issuance of updated bulletins of the Secretary-General that set out the relationship between Headquarters and conference-servicing units in other duty stations".

Table 2.13
	Delete footnote a and the indicator thereto.
	Add an indicator of achievement (iii), reading: "(iii) Presentation of documentation on time, with full respect for the six-week rule".

Tables 2.17, 2.19, 2.24, 2.26, 2.33, 2.35, 2.41 and 2.43
	Under Indicators of achievement, Performance measures, replace 
"2004-2005: to be determined through a survey" with "2004-2005: 90 per cent (to be determined through a survey)".

Tables 2.15, 2.22, 2.31 and 2.39
	Add an expected accomplishment (c), reading: "(c) Improvement in the timeliness of the production and distribution of parliamentary documentation in the six official languages of the Organization"; and, in table 2.22, reletter existing expected accomplishment (c) as (d).
	Add an indicator of achievement (c) reading: "(c) The amount and percentage of parliamentary documentation produced and distributed in the six official languages of the Organization within established deadlines"; and, in table 2.22, reletter existing indicator of achievement (c) as (d).

Paragraph 2.33 (a) (ii) d.
	Add the following activity element: "iii. Meetings of regional and other major groupings on the basis of existing practice, bearing in mind further consideration of this issue by the General Assembly during its fifty-eighth session, in accordance with its resolution 57/283 B".

Table 2.15
	In indicator of achievement (a), after "relevant rules", add ", especially the six-week rule for submission of documents".

Table 2.17
	Add an indicator of achievement (b), reading: "(b) Presentation of documentation on time, observing the six-week rule"; and insert "(a)" before the preceding indicator.

Paragraph 2.43
	In the third sentence, after "Official Document System (ODS)", add ", without negatively affecting the quality of services provided and the quantity of documents required by Member States".

Paragraph 2.45 (b)
	Add the following output:
"(vi)	Meetings of regional and other major groupings on the basis of existing practice, bearing in mind further consideration of this issue by the General Assembly during its fifty-eighth session, in accordance with its resolution 57/283 B".

Paragraph 2.46
	In the third sentence, after "amounting to $459,200", add ", without negatively affecting the quality of services provided and the quantity of documents required by Member States".

Tables 2.22, 2.31 and 2.39
	In indicator of achievement (a), after "in accordance with relevant rules", add ", in particular regarding the six-week rule for issuance and distribution of parliamentary documentation simultaneously in the six official languages".
Tables 2.24, 2.33, 2.35, 2.41 and 2.43
	Add an expected accomplishment (b), reading: "(b) Presentation of documentation on time, observing the six-week rule"; and insert "(a)" before the preceding expected accomplishment.
	Add an indicator of achievement (b), reading: "(b) The degree of satisfaction expressed by Member States with the presentation of the documentation on time"; and insert "(a)" before the preceding indicator of achievement.

Section 3
Political affairs
Paragraph 3.7
	After "for further change (A/57/387)", add "approved in paragraph 26 of General Assembly resolution 57/300".

Paragraph 3.16
	In the fourth sentence, delete "the Security Council Committee established by resolution 661 (1990) concerning the situation between Iraq and Kuwait", and replace the figure 11 at the beginning of the sentence with the figure 10.

Table 3.13
	At the end of indicator of achievement (i), add "through peaceful means".
	In indicator of achievement (ii), after "in which", add "conflicts or situations of conflict exist, and in which", and delete ", including in cooperation with partners,".

Table 3.19
Objective 1
	After "Non-Self-Governing Territories" at the end of expected accomplishment (a), add "in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the United Nations".
	Add an indicator of achievement (a) (ii) reading: "(ii) The effectiveness of servicing provided to the Special Committee, its seminars and the General Assembly; the effectiveness of research and analytical studies and reports on conditions in the Territories; and the effectiveness of publicity campaigns"; and renumber indicator of achievement (a) as (a) (i).
Objective 2
	After "Non-Self-Governing Territories" at the end of the objective, add "in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the United Nations".

Paragraph 3.44 (d)
	Replace the text of subparagraph (d) of paragraph 3.44 with the following: "the administering Powers will cooperate with the Special Committee in the implementation of the relevant resolutions and decisions of the United Nations".

Paragraph 3.47
	In the last sentence, after "international legitimacy", insert "and legality".
	At the end of the paragraph, add "in accordance with relevant Security Council resolutions".
Table 3.21
	In indicator of achievement (i), delete ", as evidenced by the voting on the relevant resolutions".

Table 3.25
	In indicators of achievement (b) (i) and (ii), delete "and incontrovertible".

Section 4 
Disarmament
Paragraph 4.39
	Replace the seventh to ninth lines, after "mandated by the General Assembly:", with "compilation of information on measures taken by Member States and international organizations to prevent terrorists from acquiring weapons of mass destruction; making accessible to Member States information on national legislation on transfer of arms, military equipment and dual use of goods and technology;".

Section 5
Peacekeeping operations
Paragraph 5.5
	Before the last sentence, insert the following sentence: "The Department will also continue to improve representation of underrepresented and unrepresented Member States in future recruitment".
	In the fifth sentence, delete "also".

Table 5.9
	In expected accomplishment (c) and indicator of achievement (c), after "gender issues", insert "and their geographical balance".

Table 5.12
	In indicator of achievement (i), performance measures (target 2004-2005), replace "10 weeks" with "8 weeks".
	In indicator of achievement (ii), performance measures (target 2004-2005), replace "80 per cent of benchmarks" with "100 per cent of benchmarks within expected time frame".

Table 5.14
	In indicator of achievement (b) (ii), performance measures (target 2004-2005), replace "6 months" with "4 months".

Table 5.16
	Reword indicator of achievement (a) (ii) to read: "An increase in the number of Member States with which the Secretariat has concluded standby arrangements".
	Under indicator of achievement (b), reword the performance measures to read:
	"2000-2001: __ per cent of all personnel deployment needs met by utilizing the United Nations standby arrangements system and rapid deployment levels or the on-call list
	"Estimate 2002-2003: __ per cent of all personnel deployment needs met by utilizing the United Nations standby arrangements system and rapid deployment levels or the on-call list
	"Target 2004-2005: __ per cent of all personnel deployment needs met by utilizing the United Nations standby arrangements system and rapid deployment levels or the on-call list".

Paragraph 5.29
	Delete paragraph 5.29 and renumber the subsequent paragraphs accordingly.

Former paragraph 5.39
	Replace former paragraph 5.39 with the following:  "The subprogramme is expected to achieve its objectives and expected accomplishments on the assumption that the Mine Action Service receives an adequate level of resources to respond to General Assembly and Security Council mandates."

Section 8
Legal affairs
Paragraph 8.3, last line
	Before "registers and publishes treaties", insert as an objective "assists Member States regarding implementation of the international legal order for seas and oceans as well as the law of treaties;".

Paragraph 8.12
	Rephrase the third task of the Division to read: "The Division will provide services for the effective application of the international judicial order of the sea and the ocean, thus helping in the understanding, acceptance and consequent application of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (1982) and the related agreements."

Paragraph 8.31 (b) (ix)
	At the end of subparagraph (ix) of paragraph 8.31 (b), add "meeting the requests of Governments on questions relating to international public law through the relevant subsidiary organs in accordance with the existing practice".

Table 8.14
	Under indicator of achievement (a) (iv), performance measures (2000-2001, estimate 2002-2003 and target 2004-2005), replace "1 week" with "1 week, observing the 6-week rule for documentation".

Paragraph 8.39 (a) (v)
	Replace the title "Ad Hoc Committee on the Elaboration of Legal Instruments for the Prevention of Terrorist Acts" with "Ad Hoc Committee established in accordance with General Assembly resolution 51/210 of 17 December 1996".

Paragraph 8.39 (b) (i)
	Under recurrent publications, include "and Yearbook of the International Law Commission, 2002, volumes I and II (General Assembly resolution 987 (X), judgements, advisory opinions, consultations and orders of the International Court of Justice)".

Table 8.18
	Under indicator of achievement (a), add a subparagraph (ix) reading: "(ix) Higher number of international transactions and higher volume of international debt trade carried out under the regime of UNCITRAL".

Section 9
Economic and social affairs
Paragraph 9.3
	In the first sentence, insert "and social" after "sustained economic".

Table 9.12
	At the end of indicator of achievement (a) (iii), add "with the assistance of the Secretariat".
	In the second line of expected accomplishment (b), after "that assist", replace "developing countries and countries with economies in transition" with "all countries".
	At the end of indicator of achievement (d) (iii), add "taking into account the provisions of Article 101 of the Charter of the United Nations".
	At the end of indicator of achievement (f), add "with the assistance of the Secretariat".

Table 9.16
	Expected accomplishment (a) should read: "(a) Effective implementation of the outcomes of the World Summit on Sustainable Development at all levels, including through partnership initiatives according to the modalities agreed upon in the Commission on Sustainable Development that support implementation of the commitments agreed at the World Summit".
	In expected accomplishment (b), delete "in all activities of sustainable development".
	Replace indicator of achievement (b) (i) with the following: "(i) Progress in the achievement of United Nations objectives and goals on sustainable development, in particular those related to water, sanitation and human settlements, and the 10-year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and production".
	Replace expected accomplishment (e) with the following: "(e) Enabling the Commission to effectively review and facilitate partnerships that support the implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation".
	Replace indicator of achievement (e) with the following: "(e) Provision of information and summary reports on partnerships in a transparent, participatory and credible manner, according to the procedures which were agreed upon in the Commission on Sustainable Development at its eleventh session".
	In expected accomplishment (f), after "in particular", insert "North-South and".

Table 9.22
	Add an expected accomplishment (f), reading: "(f) Improved access by Governments and international bodies to analytical tools, options and adequate methodologies regarding the linkages between political and economic issues and policies, such as economic sanctions, imposition of coercive economic measures, the relationship between disarmament and development and relevant aspects of post-conflict rehabilitation and reconstruction".
	Add an indicator of achievement (f) and corresponding performance measures, reading:
		"(f)	Feedback from Member States on their access to analytical tools, options and adequate methodologies regarding the linkages between political and economic issues and policies
		"Performance measures:
		"2000-2001: to be determined
		"Estimate 2002-2003: to be determined
		"Target 2004-2005: to be determined".

Table 9.30
	In expected accomplishment (a), delete "multi-stakeholder".
	Replace the text of expected accomplishment (e) with the following: "(e) Enhanced capacity of Governments, in particular that of developing countries and countries with economies in transition, to participate actively in the financing for development process".
	Add an expected accomplishment (f), reading: "(f) Fuller engagement of Governments to ensure proper follow-up to the implementation of agreements and commitments reached at the Conference and to continue to build bridges between development, finance and trade organizations and initiatives within the framework of the holistic agenda of the Conference".
	Add an indicator of achievement (f) and corresponding performance measures, reading:
		"(f)	Feedback from Member States on the contribution of the subprogramme to the fuller engagement of Governments in the follow-up to the implementation of the outcome of the Conference
		"Performance measures:
		"2000-2001: not available
		"Estimate 2002-2003: to be determined
		"Target 2004-2005: to be determined".

Section 10
Least developed countries, landlocked developing countries and small island developing States
Paragraph 10.1
	At the end of the paragraph, add the following sentence: "In addition, the programme is responsible for the provision of effective follow-up support to the further implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, taking fully into account the relevant outcomes of the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development and General Assembly resolution 57/262 relating to the convening of an international meeting in Mauritius in 2004 to undertake a full and comprehensive review of the implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States."

Paragraph 10.4
	In the first sentence, after "Transport Cooperation and the", insert "further implementation of the".
	In the third sentence, after "Department of Economic and Social Affairs", insert ", the regional commissions and the South Centre" and delete "and the regional commissions".

Table 10.5
	In the objective, replace "progress towards the achievement of" with "realize".
	At the end of the expected accomplishment, add "and the relevant General Assembly resolutions".

Paragraph 10.14 (d)
	Replace "political situation of", with "political situation in".

Section 11
United Nations support for the New Partnership for Africa's Development
Paragraph 11.16
	Replace the text of external factor (b) with the following: "(b) the agencies of the United Nations system collaborate and coordinate their activities in a coherent and effective manner".
	Delete "and" before external factor "(d)" and, at the end of the external factor, add "and (e) all stakeholders implement their financial pledges and other commitments to support the New Partnership for Africa's Development".

Table 11.10
	In expected accomplishment (a), insert "academic institutions," before "the media".

Section 12
Trade and development
	Replace, in every paragraph where the reference is made, "Millennium Development Goals" with "goals of the United Nations Millennium Declaration, as identified in section III of General Assembly resolution 55/2".
Paragraph 12.7
	In the first sentence, replace "sectoral" with "national".

Paragraph 12.29 (a) (i)
	Before subparagraph (i) of paragraph 12.29 (a), reading "United Nations Conference on Trade and Development", insert a subparagraph (i), reading "(i) General Assembly: substantive servicing of and inputs to the high-level dialogue on strengthening international economic cooperation for development through partnership, in accordance with the relevant provisions of Assembly resolution 57/250"; and renumber the subsequent subparagraphs accordingly.

Table 12.10
	In indicator of achievement (e), after "technical cooperation projects", add "that improve the areas of trade, competition, enterprise development and investment".

Table 12.11
	In indicator of achievement (b), replace "Increased number of cross-sectoral activities" with "Significant increase in the number of cross-sectoral activities".

Table 12.15
	In indicator of achievement (a) (ii), replace "this area" with "the trade-related capacity-building area".

Paragraph 12.54 (a) (i)
	At the end of subparagraph (i) of paragraph 12.54, after "multilateral trading system (2);", add "contributions to the report on the implementation of the International Conference on Financing for Development concerning trade".

Annex
	Retain the output contained in document A/56/6, paragraph 11A.31 (d) (i), reading: "Advisory services to developing countries to enhance their capacity to attract foreign portfolio investment funds, and to optimize their developmental impact", and the output contained in A/56/6, paragraph 11A.43 (a) (i) b., reading: "Inputs to the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States".

Section 14
Environment
Paragraph 14.4
	At the end of the second sentence, add "as well as at the seventh special session of the Governing Council of UNEP, held in Cartagena, and the World Summit on Sustainable Development".

Table 14.18
	Indicator of achievement (d) should read: "(d) Increased cooperation with UNCTAD, WTO and the multilateral environmental agreement secretariats to promote the mutual support of trade and environmental policies".
	Indicator of achievement (e) (i) should read: "(i) Increased number of companies adhering to the relevant provisions of the World Summit on Sustainable Development with regard to corporate responsibility and the Global Compact".

Paragraph 14.47 (b) (ii)
	Replace "reports of surveys and studies on appropriate policies, practices and indicators to improve products and services from a life-cycle perspective" with "reports of surveys and studies on appropriate practices to improve products and services from a life-cycle perspective".
	Replace "technical documents (including guidelines, case studies and training packages) on policies and practices related to life-cycle management of production processes, products and services" with "technical documents (including guidelines, case studies and training packages) on practices related to life-cycle management of production processes, products and services".

Paragraph 14.47 (c) (i)
	After "provision of targeted technical advice to financial institutions to influence investment decisions favouring energy efficiency and renewable energy", add "and advanced fossil fuel technology".

Table 14.26
	Under "Action taken to implement the recommendation", replace the paragraph reading:
"It is expected that, after use of the indicative scale of contributions during a pilot phase in 2003, UNEP will analyse the accumulated experience and develop a new scale for the biennium 2004-2005, inviting all Member States to make adequate and predictable contributions"
with the paragraph reading:
"The Governing Council/Global Ministerial Environment Forum of UNEP in 2004 will review the effectiveness of the system and take a decision, as appropriate".

Section 15
Human settlements
Table 15.10
	Replace expected accomplishment (i) with the following: "(i) Increased awareness of and sensitivity to the plight of the urban poor, and enhanced cooperation and partnership in slum upgrading initiatives in line with the Millennium Development Goal 'cities without slums'".
	Insert in indicator of achievement (i) after "countries" "and other Habitat Agenda partners".
	Delete in expected accomplishment (j) "renewable energy and".
	Replace indicator of achievement (j) with the following: "(j) Number of countries working with UN-Habitat to promote access to diverse and efficient energy services as well as public and non-motorized transport".

Section 16
Crime prevention and criminal justice
Table 16.7
	In indicator of achievement (e), replace "Number" with "Percentage" and adjust the performance measures accordingly.

Section 17
International drug control
Table 17.7
	In indicator of achievement (ii), after "Full", add "and efficient".

Table 17.10
	In indicator of achievement (c), replace "Timely receipt by" with "Availability of information for".

Table 17.12
	Under indicator of achievement (c) (i), performance measures (target 2004-2005), replace "an average rating of 'fully satisfactory'" with "a 75 per cent rating 'fully satisfactory'".
	Delete indicator of achievement (c) (ii), and delete "(i)" in indicator of achievement (c) (i).
	Under indicators of achievement (f) and (h), performance measures (target 
2004-2005), replace "average survey rating of 'fully satisfactory'" with "a 75 per cent rating 'fully satisfactory'".

Table 17.13
	Expected accomplishment (b) should read: "(b) Enhanced treaty adherence, at the request of Governments".
	Indicator of achievement (b) should read: "(b) Number of Member States that received support from the Secretariat to become parties to one of the three drug control treaties".
	In indicator of achievement (c), insert ",with the assistance of the Secretariat," after "Governments".

Table 17.15
	In indicators of achievement (a), (b), (c) and (d), insert ", with the assistance of the Secretariat," after "Member States".

Table 17.17
Objective 1
	Replace the text of indicator of achievement (a) with the following: "(a) Enhanced assistance by UNDCP to Member States to establish or strengthen national strategies to reduce and eliminate illicit cultivation, including comprehensive measures such as programmes in alternative development, law enforcement and eradication".
	In indicators of achievement (b), (c) and (d), insert ", with the assistance of the Secretariat," after "countries".
	In indicator of achievement (e) (i), insert ", with the assistance of the Secretariat," after "Member States".

Objective 2
	In indicator of achievement (a), insert ", with the assistance of the Secretariat," after "transit States".

Section 18
Economic and social development in Africa
Paragraph 18A.25
	In the second sentence, after "This goal", insert ", while taking into account the new organization and programme of work of the Commission on Sustainable Development with regard to the regional implementation forum,".

Table 18A.10
	Expected accomplishment (a) should read: "(a) Improved capacity of member States to design, implement and monitor development policies and strategies that address the needs of the poor, taking into account the goals of the Millennium Declaration and the priorities of NEPAD".

Table 18A.12
	Expected accomplishment (a) should read: "(a) Increased awareness of policy makers of the interrelationship between and the need for integration of the three dimensions of sustainable development".
	In indicator of achievement (a), replace "the number of citations of" with "the number of times reference was made to". In the performance measures, replace "citations" with "references".
	Expected accomplishment (c) should read: "(c) Effective incorporation of the interrelated issues of food security, population, environment and human settlements into sustainable development policies".

Table 18A.18
	In indicator of achievement (a), replace "trained by ECA" with "with the assistance of ECA".

Section 19
Economic and social development in Asia and the Pacific
Subprogramme 7
	Replace the title with "Social development, including persistent and emerging issues".

Paragraph 19.7
	Replace "least developed and landlocked countries as well as other developing countries" with "the developing countries and countries with economies in transition, particularly the least developed countries, landlocked developing countries and small island developing States".

Paragraph 19.40 (c) (ii)
	At the beginning and at the end of the paragraph, replace "in the least developed countries and the countries with economies in transition" with "especially in the developing countries and countries with economies in transition, in particular the least developed countries, landlocked developing countries and small island developing States".

Paragraph 19.48 (c) (ii), (iii) and (iv)
	After "energy efficiency", add ", advanced fossil fuel technology".

Table 19.22
	In expected accomplishment (a), replace "social issues" with "social development issues".
	Delete indicator of achievement (a) (i) and delete "(ii)" in indicator of achievement (a) (ii).

Section 21
Economic and social development in Latin America and the Caribbean
Table 21.10
	Add, as indicators of achievement (c) and (d), indicators of achievement (d) and (e) of paragraph 17.9 of the medium-term plan for the period 2002-2005, as revised.

Table 21.12
	Add, as indicators of achievement (iii), (iv) and (v), the indicators of achievement of paragraph 17.13 of the medium-term plan for the period 2002-2005, as revised.

Table 21.14
	In expected accomplishment (c), after "Enhanced regional", insert "technical".
	Add, as indicators of achievement (c) (ii) and (c) (iii), indicators of achievement (a) and (b) of paragraph 17.18 of the medium-term plan for the period 2002-2005, as revised; and renumber the existing indicator of achievement as (c) (i).

Table 21.16
	In indicator of achievement (c), after "guidelines" insert ", with the assistance of ECLAC,".

Paragraph 21.60
	Replace paragraph 21.60 with the following: "The subprogramme is expected to achieve its objectives and expected accomplishments on the assumption that: (a) gender mainstreaming in the region continues to receive full support from the countries of the region; and (b) member States continue to support the activities of the subprogramme."

Table 21.20
	Add indicators of achievement (a) and (c) of paragraph 17.33 of the medium-term plan for the period 2002-2005, as revised, as indicators of achievement (a) (iv) and (a) (v). Add to the end of each "with the assistance or collaboration of ECLAC".

Table 21.22
	Add indicator of achievement (b) of paragraph 17.37 of the medium-term plan for the period 2002-2005, as revised, as indicator of achievement (b) (ii); and renumber the existing indicator of achievement as (b) (i).

Table 21.24
	Add expected accomplishment (a) of paragraph 17.41 and indicator of achievement (a) of paragraph 17.42 of the medium-term plan for the period 2002-2005, as revised, as expected accomplishment (e) and indicator of achievement (e).

Table 21.28
	At the end of indicator of achievement (a) (ii), after "coding systems", add "with the assistance and/or collaboration of ECLAC".
	Add indicators of achievement (d) and (e) of paragraph 17.50 of the medium-term plan for the period 2002-2005, as revised, as indicators of achievement (a) (iii) and (a) (iv).

Table 21.30
	Add, as expected accomplishments and indicators of achievement (c), (d) and (e), expected accomplishments (a), (c) and (d) of paragraph 17.54 and indicators of achievement (a), (b) and (c) of paragraph 17.55 of the medium-term plan for the period 2002-2005, as revised.

Table 21.32
	Add indicator of achievement (b) of paragraph 17.59 of the medium-term plan for the period 2002-2005, as revised, as indicator of achievement (c) (ii); and renumber indicator of achievement (c) (ii) as (c) (iii).

Section 23
Regular programme of technical cooperation
Paragraph 23.35
	(a)	(i)	In the first of the advisory services, replace "especially in least developed, landlocked and island developing countries and countries with economies in transition" with "especially in the developing countries and countries with economies in transition, in particular least developed, landlocked and island developing countries";
	(e)	(i)	In the tenth line, after "developing", insert "energy efficiency, advanced fossil fuel technology and";
	(e)	(ii)	Replace "renewable energy" with "implementation of paragraph 20 of the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation, on energy";
	(f)	(i)	In the first of the advisory services, replace "particularly of least developed, landlocked and island developing countries and countries with economies in transition" with "especially of the developing countries and countries with economies in transition, in particular least developed, landlocked and island developing countries";
	(g)	(iii)	Replace the text with the following: "(iii) Field project on addressing social development, including emerging social issues".

Section 24
Human rights
Paragraph 24.3
	Delete the final sentence.

Paragraph 24.4
	Delete the final sentence.

Paragraph 24.5
	Delete the final sentence.

Paragraph 24.6
	The final sentence should read: "During the biennium, OHCHR will work towards the goal of increased effectiveness and improved management, taking into account relevant resolutions and decisions, as well as the recommendations already made in that regard."

Paragraph 24.8 (a) (ii)
	Subparagraph (ii) of paragraph 24.8 (a) should read: "(ii) Under subprogramme 1, one new P-4 post to direct research and analysis in the implementation of the right to development, including strategies to achieve the Millennium Development Goals".

Paragraph 24.15 (e)
	Delete subparagraph (e) of paragraph 24.15 and reletter the subsequent subparagraphs accordingly.

Paragraph 24.29
	At the end of the paragraph, add the sentence: "Specific proposals in this regard will be submitted to the General Assembly in line with the decision contained in paragraph 4 of its resolution 54/244".

Table 24.11
	Add an expected accomplishment (e) reading: "(e) Strengthened efforts that contribute to the elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance" and an indicator of achievement (e) reading: "(e) An increased number of activities carried out to fulfil the mandates".

Paragraph 24.39 (c)
	Subparagraph (c) of paragraph 24.39 should read: "the establishment of 1 new P-4 post to strengthen capacity in the area of the implementation of the right to development, including strategies to achieve the Millennium Development Goals, by directing research and analysis".

Paragraph 24.58
	The second sentence should read: "OHCHR establishes presences in the field as a response to decisions of relevant intergovernmental bodies of the United Nations, including the Commission on Human Rights, in accordance with their respective mandates."
	In the fifth sentence, replace "creating a culture of human rights" with "creating human rights education and training".
Section 25
Protection of and assistance to refugees
Paragraph 25.4
	In the last sentence, replace "programme of work will" with "work under the subprogramme on international protection will also".

Table 25.5
	Replace expected accomplishment (d) with the following: "(d) Progress towards a durable solution through the formulation, facilitation and active implementation of voluntary repatriation operations in conditions of safety and dignity, followed up by the monitoring of the situations in countries to which the refugees return".
	At the end of indicator of achievement (d), add "in the framework of voluntary repatriation operations".
	Replace expected accomplishment (e) with the following: "(e) The promotion of local integration as a possible durable solution, where feasible, in accordance with the High Commissioner's strategy of development through local integration".
	Under indicator of achievement (f) (ii), add the following: 
	"Performance measures: 
	"2000-2001: not available
	"Estimate 2002-2003: to be determined
	"Target 2004-2005: to be determined"
	To indicator of achievement (f), add a subparagraph (iii), reading: 
"(iii) The extent to which tools to improve monitoring and oversight of resettlement have been adopted
 	"Performance measures: 
	"2000-2001: not available
	"Estimate 2002-2003: to be determined 
	"Target 2004-2005: to be determined".
	Add a full stop at the end of expected accomplishment (c) and add the text of expected accomplishment (g) to expected accomplishment (c). 
	 Merge indicator of achievement (g) with indicator of achievement (c), producing two subparagraphs, as follows:
	"(c)	(i) Decrease in the number of incidents related to sexual and gender-based violence reported to health clinics in refugee camps"
"(ii) The number of UNHCR country operations plans reflecting the five priority categories and key sectors"
 	To indicator of achievement (c), add a subparagraph (iii) and performance measures, reading:
	"(iii) Development of measurable indicators corresponding to the High Commissioner's five commitments

"Performance measures:
"2000-2001: not available 
"Estimate 2002-2003: to be determined 
"Target 2004-2005: to be determined".

Table 25.6
	Replace the text of indicator of achievement (b) (i) with the following: "(i) The number of initiatives incorporating quality of life of refugees and the surrounding local communities into national development plans".
	In indicator of achievement (b) (ii), delete "against core standards".
	In indicator of achievement (b) (iii), replace "microfinance" with "self-reliance".
	In expected accomplishment (d), replace "protect" with "assist" and at the end of the expected accomplishment, add "through the provision of sufficient voluntary contributions by the international community, in a spirit of burden-sharing and international solidarity".
	In indicator of achievement (d) (ii), delete "as well as in the development through local integration strategy".
	Under indicator of achievement (d), add a subparagraph (iii), reading: "(iii) Increase in the level of voluntary contributions provided by the international community". To this indicator of achievement, add "Performance measures: to be determined".

Section 28
Public information
Paragraph 28.3
	Replace the first two sentences with the following sentence: "The overarching mandate of the Department of Public Information is contained in General Assembly resolution 13 (I) of 13 February 1946, and its primary mission is to provide, through its outreach activities, accurate, impartial, comprehensive and timely information to the public on the tasks and responsibilities of the United Nations in order to strengthen international support for the activities of the Organization with the greatest transparency, respecting existing mandates and in line with regulation 5.6 of the Regulations and Rules Governing Programme Planning, the Programme Aspects of the Budget, the Monitoring of Implementation and the Methods of Evaluation, to focus its message and better concentrate its efforts and, as a function of performance management, to match its programmes to the needs of its target audiences, on the basis of improved feedback and evaluation mechanisms, as set out in General Assembly resolution 57/130 B".
	In the last sentence, after "has been formulated,", insert "as welcomed by the Committee on Information".

Paragraph 28.4
	The second sentence should read: "Its core message, with the medium-term plan priorities as the main guide, and taking into consideration General Assembly resolution 55/2 (the Millennium Declaration), will focus on the eradication of poverty, conflict prevention, sustainable development, human rights, the HIV/AIDS epidemic, the battle against international terrorism and the needs of the African continent (see resolution 57/130 B), as well as on international cooperation, the transfer of technology and transparency in international trade".

Paragraph 28.11
	After "in Western Europe" at the end of the third sentence, add "in accordance with resolutions 57/130 B and 57/300, in particular paragraphs 44 and 15 respectively".

Table 28.7
	At the end of the objective, add "and assessing that impact through annual programme reviews".
	At the beginning of the last paragraph under Indicators of achievement, insert "(d)"; and at the end of the paragraph, add "in the implementation of the results of the Department's annual programme impact reviews".

Paragraph 28.29
	In the first sentence, delete "and established by the Secretary-General".
	In the second sentence, replace ", using the Millennium Declaration as its guide" with "of the medium-term plan and of the Millennium Declaration (General Assembly resolution 55/2)".

Paragraph 28.30
	The second sentence should read: "Under the guidance of the Information Centres Service at Headquarters, the United Nations information centres and information components and regional hubs, as applicable, will play a significant role in disseminating information about the work of the Organization to the peoples of the world, including the areas outlined in the United Nations Millennium Declaration, with the information centres as the 'field voice' of the Department of Public Information, and will work through local intermediaries to promote public awareness of and mobilize support for the work of the United Nations at the local level, bearing in mind that information in the local languages has the strongest impact on the local populations."

Paragraph 28.31
	After "regional information hubs in strategic locations" in the first sentence, insert "in accordance with resolutions 57/130 B and 57/300, in particular paragraphs 44 and 15 respectively".

Paragraph 28.33
	Delete the last sentence.



Table 28.10

	In the objective, after "on priority issues" add "of the medium-term plan and the Millennium Declaration (General Assembly resolution 55/2)".
	In expected accomplishment (a), replace "on priority issues" with "in accordance with priorities established by the General Assembly".

Paragraph 28.50
	At the end of the first sentence, replace "the Member States" with "intergovernmental organs in collaboration with the Member States".

Table 28.18
	Insert "(a)" before the expected accomplishment and the indicator of achievement. Add the following to indicator of achievement (a): "; the number of hits on the United Nations web site, sorted by official language, and the number of radio programmes broadcast, by language".
	Add an expected accomplishment (b), reading: "(b) Timeliness in the submission of photographic and video material".
	Add an indicator of achievement (b), reading: "(b) Period of time within which photographic and video material is available to news organizations and media after an event takes place".

Table 28.22
	At the end of indicator of achievement (a), add "; number of joint and/or coordinated projects by the Dag Hammarskjld Library and other United Nations libraries; and number of hits on the Dag Hammarskjld Library web sites, sorted by official language".

Paragraph 28.66
	After "on priority issues", replace the rest of the text with the following: "using the priorities of the medium-term plan as the main guide and taking into consideration General Assembly resolution 55/2 (the Millennium Declaration)."

Table 28.24
	In the objective, replace "using the Millennium Declaration as a guide" with "using the priorities of the medium-term plan and taking into consideration General Assembly resolution 55/2 (the Millennium Declaration)".
	Add the following to the indicator of achievement: "; the number of readers of the UN Chronicle, sorted by official language; and the number of times articles appearing in the UN Chronicle are cited in newspapers and journals".

Section 29A
Office of the Under-Secretary-General for Management
Table 29A.5
	In indicator of achievement (c), insert "efficient" before "support services".

Table 29A.8
	In objective 1, replace "Secretary-General's vision for reform" with "reforms in the United Nations".
	Under objective 1, add an indicator of achievement (ii) reading: "(ii) Level of satisfaction expressed by the intergovernmental organs" and a corresponding performance measure reading: "Periodic surveys among Member States"; and renumber the existing indicator of achievement as "(i)".

Table 29A.10
	At the end of the expected accomplishment, add "related to disciplinary affairs, claims and appeals of the staff".
Section 29B
Office of Programme Planning, Budget and Accounts

Table 29B.5
	In the objective, after "procedures", insert "contained in the Financial Regulations and Rules and the Regulations and Rules Governing Programme Planning, the Programme Aspects of the Budget, the Monitoring of Implementation and the Methods of Evaluation".

Table 29B.8
			Objective 1
	Add an expected accomplishment (b) reading: "(b) Better implementation of and compliance by departments and offices of the Secretariat with the Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nations and the Regulations and Rules Governing Programme Planning, the Programme Aspects of the Budget, the Monitoring of Implementation and the Methods of Evaluation"; and add "(a)" before the existing expected accomplishment.
	Add an indicator of achievement (b) reading: "(b) Fewer findings by the oversight bodies of non-compliance with the Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nations and the Regulations and Rules Governing Programme Planning, the Programme Aspects of the Budget, the Monitoring of Implementation and the Methods of Evaluation and other approved budgetary procedures and guidelines for the regular budget, peacekeeping budgets, extrabudgetary resources and budgets of the Tribunals".  Indicators of achievement (a) and (b) become indicators of achievement (a) (i) and (ii).
Objective 2 
	In indicator of achievement (a), after "travel claims", add "payroll, insurance, invoices and claims processing"; and add an indicator of achievement (c) reading: "(c) The availability of financial reports by the required dates".

Table 29B.10
	Under objective 1, change indicator of achievement (b) to (b) (i), and add an indicator of achievement (b) (ii) reading: "(ii) Availability of budgetary documents by the required dates".
	Under objective 1, add an expected accomplishment (c) reading: "(c) Improved compliance with regulation 5.6 of the Regulations and Rules Governing Programme Planning, the Programme Aspects of the Budget, the Monitoring of Implementation and the Methods of Evaluation"; and add an indicator of achievement (c), reading: "(c) Number of sections of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2006-2007 that reflect a number of outputs deleted because they are obsolete, irrelevant or of marginal usefulness".

Paragraph 29B.31
	In subparagraph (a) (ii) after "measures to encourage payment of assessed contributions and related issues", add "if mandated".
Section 29C
Office of Human Resources Management

Table 29C.9
	At the end of the expected accomplishment, add ", taking into account Article 101 of the Charter".
	At the end of indicator of achievement (ii), add ", taking into account Article 101 of the Charter".
	Under indicator of achievement (iii), performance measures, before "Number of unrepresented Member States", add a performance measure, reading: "Level of underrepresentation of Member States: to be determined".

Paragraph 29C.22
	In subparagraph (a) (ii), after "gender balance," add ", geographical representation,".
	At the end of subparagraph (b) (i) e., add "and taking into account planning for the replacement of retiring staff".

Section 29D
Office of Central Support Services
Table 29D.5
	At the end of expected accomplishment (a), add ", improving the application of the Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nations and the Regulations and Rules Governing Programme Planning, the Programme Aspects of the Budget, the Monitoring of Implementation and the Methods of Evaluation".
	In indicator of achievement (a) (iii), replace "Full" with "Effective and efficient".
Table 29D.12
	The objective should read: "To ensure efficient, effective and diversified procurement opportunities and high-quality procurement services for the Organization."
	Add an expected accomplishment (c) reading: "(c) Improvement in efforts to diversify United Nations suppliers", and a corresponding indicator of achievement (c) reading: "(c) Number of new suppliers registered".
Section 29E
Administration, Geneva
Section 29F
Administration, Vienna
Section 29G
Administration, Nairobi
Table 29E.12
	At the end of expected accomplishment (f), add "and improvement in efforts to diversify United Nations suppliers".

Paragraph 29F.20
	At the end of subparagraphs (a) and (b), add "observing the principle of geographical representation, taking into account Article 101 of the Charter".

Table 29G.12
	At the end of expected accomplishment (f), add "and improvement in efforts to diversify United Nations suppliers".
Tables 29E.6 (Objective), 29E.8 (Objective 1), 29F.7 (Objective), 29F.9 (Objective 1), 29G.6 (Objective), 29G.8 (Objective 1)
	At the end of the objectives, add ", with the goal of achieving greater efficiency and effectiveness of operations".
	Add an indicator of achievement (ii) reading: "(ii) Savings achieved from efficiency measures" and renumber the existing indicator of achievement as (i).

Section 30
Internal oversight
Table 30.8
	In indicator of achievement (a), after "non-compliance" add "by programme managers".
	In expected accomplishment (b), after "the Organization" add "and increased efficiency".
	In indicator of achievement (b), replace "audit recommendations calling for formal" with "audits on".
	Indicator of achievement (c) should become (c) (i); add an indicator (c) (ii), reading: "(ii) The level of recovery of erroneous or unauthorized expenditures"; and add under the corresponding performance measures "To be determined".
	In indicator of achievement (d), delete "and assignments".

Table 30.10
	At the end of expected accomplishment (a), add "in accordance with the mandates".

Table 30.12
	Add an indicator of achievement (iii) reading: 
	"(iii) Number of cases resolved 
	"Performance measures:
	"To be determined".

Annex, column headed "Reason for discontinuation"
	In the entry for paragraph 28.22 (a) (ii) b., after "Organization" insert "included in the medium-term plan and to enhance support for self-evaluation by other departments and offices".

Section 31
Jointly financed administrative activities
Table 31.9
	Under indicator of achievement (a), add the following:
	"Performance measures:
	"2000-2001: to be determined
	"Estimate 2002-2003: to be determined
	"Target 2004-2005: to be determined".
Table 31.24
	Under objective 1, add an expected accomplishment (b) reading: "(b) Ensuring adequate coordination among United Nations agencies to provide for the safety and security of staff"; and reletter the existing expected accomplishment as (a).
	Add an indicator of achievement (b), reading:
	"(b)	(i)	Reduction in the number of preventable security incidents in the field
		"(ii)	Increase in attendance at joint security training sessions run by the United Nations Security Coordinator in the field
		"(iii)	Compliance by all resident coordinators/humanitarian coordinators with their responsibilities as 'designated officials' for security";
and reletter the existing indicator of achievement as (a).


Annex II
Staffing table for 2004 and 2005

Category20042005Professional and above Deputy Secretary-General11Under-Secretary-General2727Assistant Secretary-General2121D-28484D-1253253P-5706706P-4/32 3412 342P-2/1477477Subtotal3 9103 911General ServicePrincipal level274274Other level2 6732 673Subtotal2 9472 947OtherSecurity Service218218Local level1 6771 677Field Service185185Trades and Crafts181181Subtotal2 2612 261Total9 1189 119



Annex III
New posts approved in the context of the review of the initial proposal of the Secretary-General

Section 1. Overall policy-making, direction and coordinationOffice of the Ombudsman1 D-1Office of the Director-General, United Nations Office at Nairobi1 P-5Section 3. Political affairsOffice of the United Nations Special Coordinator for the Middle East Peace Process1 P-3, 1 Security ServiceSection 4. DisarmamentWeapons of mass destruction1 P-5Regional disarmament1 D-1Section 8. Legal affairsProgressive harmonization and unification of the law of international trade1 D-2, 1 P-5, 1 P-2 Section 9. Economic and social affairsExecutive direction and management1 Assistant Secretary-General, 1 P-5Economic and Social Council support and coordination1 P-5Population1 P-5, 1 P-3Financing for development1 P-5, 1 P-4, 1 P-3Secretariat of the Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues1 P-3, 1 P-2Section 10. Least developed countries, landlocked developing countries and small island developing States1 D-1Section 12. Trade and developmentInvestment, enterprise development and technology1 P-4Programme support1 D-2Section 14. EnvironmentExecutive direction and management1 P-5Section 15. Human settlementsShelter and sustainable human settlements development1 P-4Monitoring the Habitat agenda1 P-5Section 16. Crime prevention and criminal justice1 P-4Section 19. Economic and social development in Asia and the PacificPoverty and development1 P-2Statistics1 P-2Environment and sustainable development1 P-2Social development, including emerging social issues1 P-2Section 21. Economic and social development in Latin America and the CaribbeanEnvironment and human settlements1 P-2Subregional activities in Mexico and Central America1 P-4Section 24. Human rightsRight to development, research and analysis1 P-4Supporting human rights bodies and organs1 P-5, 1 P-4Advisory services, fact-finding and field activities1 D-1, 1 P-5, 1 P-4Section 26. Palestine refugees1 D-1, 1 P-5, 1 P-4, 2 P-3Section 27. Humanitarian assistanceComplex emergencies1 P-4, 1 P-3Disaster relief1 P-3Section 29. Management and central support servicesManagement services, Nairobi1 General Service (Local level)Programme planning, budget and accounts, Nairobi1 P-4, 5 General Service (Local level)Human resources management, Nairobi2 P-4, 1 P-3, 1 P-2, 5 General ServiceTotal62

Annex IV
Conversions of temporary resources to established posts

Section 2. General Assembly affairs and conference servicesInterpretation, meeting and publishing services, New York2 P-5, 3 P-4, 5 P-3Section 3. Political affairsSecurity Council affairs1 P-5, 1 P-3, 1 P-2/1, 
5 General Service (Other level)Section 7. International Court of JusticeThe Registry5 P-2/1Section 10. Least developed countries, landlocked developing countries and small island developing States1 Under-Secretary-General, 
1 D-2, 2 P-5, 3 P-4, 1 P-3,
5 General Service (Other level)Section 11. United Nations support for the New Partnership for Africa's DevelopmentMobilization of international support1 Under-Secretary-General, 
1 D-1, 1 P-4, 2 P-3, 
2 General Service (Other level)Section 24. Human rightsAdvisory services, fact-finding and field activities1 P-5, 1 P-4, 3 P-3Section 29C. Human Resources ManagementOffice of Operational Services1 P-3, 1 P-2, 
2 General Service (Other level) Total52

1 A/58/6 (Introduction), A/58/6 (Sects. 1-35), A/58/6 (Sect. 13)/Add.1, A/58/6 (Sect. 14)/Rev.1, A/58/6 (Income sects. 1-3) and A/58/6/Corr.1.  For the final text, see Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 6.
2 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 7 and corrigendum (A/58/7 and Corr.1); and A/58/7/Add.13 (for the final text, see Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 7A).
3 Ibid., Supplement No. 16 (A/58/16).
4 ST/SGB/2000/8.
5 ST/SGB/2003/7.
6 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 7 and corrigendum (A/58/7 and Corr.1).
7 A/58/569.
8 A/57/387 and Corr.1.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0351072E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/58/270<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

34
    

35

United NationsA/RES/58/270General AssemblyDistr.: General
19 March 2004Fifty-eighth session
Agenda item 121

03 51072

A/RES/58/270

A/RES/58/270

4

3

