<<ODS JOB NO>>N9877161E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/52/205<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>

UNITED									A
NATIONS



					General Assembly


																		Distr.
																		GENERAL

																		A/RES/52/205
																		9 March 1998






Fifty-second session
Agenda item 99 (b)


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Second Committee (A/52/630)]


52/205.Economic and technical cooperation among developing countries


	The General Assembly,

	Reaffirming its resolutions 33/134 of 19 December 1978, in which it endorsed the Buenos Aires Plan of Action for Promoting and Implementing Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries,1 46/159 of 19 December 1991 on technical cooperation among developing countries, 49/96 of 19 December 1994 on a United Nations conference on South-South cooperation and 50/119 of 20 December 1995 on economic and technical cooperation among developing countries and a United Nations conference on South-South cooperation, as well as other relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council on economic and technical cooperation among developing countries,

	Reaffirming also that South-South cooperation constitutes an important element of international cooperation for development and is an essential basis for national and collective self-reliance as well as a means of ensuring the effective integration and participation of developing countries in the world economy and that it is not a substitute for, but rather complementary to, North-South cooperation,

	Recognizing the fact that developing countries have the primary responsibility for promoting and implementing economic and technical cooperation among themselves, and reiterating the need for the international community to support the efforts of the developing countries to expand South-South cooperation through the modality of economic and technical cooperation among developing countries,


	Taking note of the decisions and recommendations contained in the Final Document of the Eleventh Conference of Heads of State or Government of the Non-Aligned Countries,2 held at Cartagena de Indias, Colombia, from 18 to 20 October 1995, and in this context welcoming the operationalization of the Non-Aligned Movement Centre for South-South Technical Cooperation, in Jakarta in 1998, and inviting all development partners to make use of and give support, as appropriate, to the Centre,

	Taking note also of the Declaration adopted by the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the Group of 77 at their twenty-first annual meeting,3 held in New York on 26 September 1997, in which the Ministers emphasized the increasing importance and complementarity of economic and technical cooperation among developing countries as a means of supporting and broadening the global partnership in international development cooperation,

	Welcoming the San José Declaration and Plan of Action4 adopted by the Group of 77 at the South-South Conference on Trade, Investment and Finance, held at San José, Costa Rica, from 13 to 15 January 1997, which outlined concrete modalities on sectoral issues relating to trade, finance, investment and enterprise cooperation,

	Also welcoming the outcome of the Second Asia-Africa Forum,5 held at Bangkok from 11 to 13 June 1997, as a mechanism to strengthen South-South cooperation, as well as the convening of the Second Tokyo International Conference on African Development in Japan in October 1998,6 and calling upon the international community to reaffirm its commitment in supporting Africa's development efforts,

	1.	Endorses the report of the High-level Committee on the Review of Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries on its tenth session7 and the decisions adopted by the High-level Committee at that session;8

	2.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the state of South-South cooperation,9 which provides a comprehensive and systematic overview and analysis of economic cooperation among developing countries in the context of South-South cooperation worldwide and of United Nations system support for such cooperation;

	3.	Also takes note of the draft revised Guidelines for the Review of Policies and Procedures concerning Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries,10 submitted by the Administrative Committee on Coordination, and recommends that the draft revised Guidelines be submitted through the Economic and Social Council to the General Assembly at its fifty-third session in the context of the triennial policy review of operational activities for development of the United Nations system;

	4.	Invites the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and the Special Unit for Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries of the United Nations Development Programme, as well as other relevant organizations, taking into account their agreed mandates, work programmes and priorities, to undertake jointly further work on formulating concrete recommendations on the implementation of and follow-up to the San José Declaration and Plan of Action4 adopted by the Group of 77 at the South-South Conference on Trade, Investment and Finance;

	5.	Stresses the need to intensify the process of strengthening the various interregional dialogues and the exchange of experiences among subregional and regional economic groupings for the purposes of expanding South-South cooperation through integrating the modalities of economic and technical cooperation among developing countries;

	6.	Calls upon all Governments and relevant United Nations organizations, including the multilateral financial institutions, to consider increasing allocations for economic and technical cooperation among developing countries and to identify new funding modalities to promote South-South cooperation, such as triangular cooperation and private sector funding;

	7.	Welcomes the contribution made by some countries to the Voluntary Trust Fund for the Promotion of South-South Cooperation, and invites all countries, including developed countries, to contribute to the Trust Fund;

	8.	Urges the organizations and bodies of the United Nations system, and invites other relevant intergovernmental organizations involved in international development cooperation, to make concerted and vigorous efforts to mainstream the implementation of modalities of economic and technical cooperation among developing countries by giving them full consideration in the design, formulation, implementation and evaluation of programmes and projects in their operational activities;

	9.	Decides to hold a one-day commemorative meeting at the beginning of the fifty-third session of the General Assembly, in accordance with the relevant paragraphs of the first report of the General Committee,11 to mark the occasion of the twentieth anniversary of the adoption of the Buenos Aires Plan of Action for Promoting and Implementing Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries,1 and to that effect requests the Special Unit for Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries, in its capacity as substantive secretariat of the High-level Committee on the Review of Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries and system-wide coordinator on technical cooperation among developing countries, to be responsible for the preparation and organization of the commemorative meeting, including the provision of adequate documentation, in consultation with Member States and relevant organizations and agencies of the United Nations system;

	10.	Also decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-third session an item entitled "Commemorative meeting of the twentieth anniversary of the adoption of the Buenos Aires Plan of Action for Promoting and Implementing Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries";

	11.	Requests the Secretary-General, in cooperation with the Special Unit for Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries and in consultation with Member States and relevant organizations and agencies of the United Nations system, to incorporate into his report for the triennial policy review of operational activities for development, for consideration at the fifty-third session of the General Assembly, an assessment and recommendations aimed at further strengthening the integration of the modalities of economic and technical cooperation among developing countries into the operational activities of the United Nations system, with a view to enhancing the global partnership in international development cooperation;


	12.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-fourth session the sub-item entitled "Economic and technical cooperation among developing countries", and in that context requests the Secretary-General to report to it at that session on the implementation of the present resolution.

	77th plenary meeting
	18 December 1997
1 Report of the United Nations Conference on Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries, Buenos Aires, 30 August-12 September 1978 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.78.II.A.11 and corrigendum), chap. I.
2 A/50/752-S/1995/1035, annex III; see Official Records of the Security Council, Fiftieth Year, Supplement for October, November and December 1995, document S/1995/1035.
3 A/52/460, annex.
4 A/C.2/52/8, annex.
5 See A/52/572.
6 See A/C.2/52/9.
7 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-second Session, Supplement No. 39 (A/52/39).
8 Ibid., annex I.
9 A/52/402.
10 E/1997/110, annex.
11 A/52/250.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------



 

 


98-77161	/...


98-77161	/...

A/RES/52/205
Page 1



	A/RES/52/205
	Page 1




98-77161	/...


98-77161	/...

A/RES/52/205
Page 2



	A/RES/52/205
	Page 2




	/...


	/...

A/RES/52/205
Page 4



	A/RES/52/205
	Page 4







