[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 21 December 2009
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/64/420/Add.2)]
64/199.	Follow-up to and implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States


	The General Assembly,
	Reaffirming the Declaration of Barbados1 and the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,2 adopted by the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, and recalling its resolution 49/122 of 19 December 1994 on the Global Conference, 
	Reaffirming also the Mauritius Declaration3 and the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States ("Mauritius Strategy for Implementation"),4 adopted by the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States on 14 January 2005,
	Recalling its resolutions 59/311 of 14 July 2005, 60/194 of 22 December 2005, 61/196 of 20 December 2006, 62/191 of 19 December 2007 and 63/213 of 19 December 2008,
	Recalling also the 2005 World Summit Outcome,5
	Reaffirming that the Commission on Sustainable Development is the primary intergovernmental forum for monitoring the implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action and the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation, 
	Reaffirming also that the adverse effects of climate change and sea-level rise present significant and specific risks to the sustainable development of small island developing States, that the effects of climate change may threaten the very existence of some of them and that, given their vulnerability, adaptation to the adverse effects of climate change and sea-level rise therefore remains a major priority for small island developing States, 
	Recognizing the urgent need to increase the level of resources provided to small island developing States for the effective implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation, 
	Underlining the importance of developing and strengthening national sustainable development strategies in small island developing States, 
	Recalling the decision to review progress made in addressing the vulnerabilities of small island developing States through the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation at the sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly, 
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the follow-up to and implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation;6 
	2.	Reaffirms its decision to convene a two-day high-level review in September 2010 as part of its sixty-fifth session, to assess progress made in addressing the vulnerabilities of small island developing States through the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation;4
	3.	Decides that the high-level review will be structured around an opening plenary meeting, followed by two multi-stakeholder round-table sessions, an interactive dialogue on cross-regional perspectives and a closing plenary meeting; 
	4.	Also decides that the review will be chaired by the President of the General Assembly, and requests the President of the General Assembly to present a concise draft political declaration based on, inter alia, inputs from the preparatory meetings, at an appropriate date to enable sufficient consideration and agreement by Member States;
	5.	Reaffirms that the review should provide the international community with an opportunity to conduct a thorough assessment of the progress made, lessons learned and constraints encountered in the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation and to agree on what needs to be done to further address the vulnerabilities of small island developing States; 
	6.	Decides to convene regional preparatory meetings of small island developing States in their respective regions, as well as an interregional meeting for all small island developing States, to undertake the review of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation at the national and regional levels, and also decides that, for this purpose, the Department of Economic and Social Affairs of the Secretariat, through its Small Island Developing States Unit, the Office of the High Representative for the Least Developed Countries, Landlocked Developing Countries and Small Island Developing States and the relevant agencies of the United Nations system, including regional commissions, within their respective mandates and existing resources, should organize, facilitate and provide necessary support to the review process at the national, regional and international levels; 
	7.	Requests the Secretary-General, in this context, to provide a comprehensive report on progress made and on the continuing challenges faced in the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation, noting the importance of paragraphs 87, 88 and 101 of the Mauritius Strategy and of taking into account cross-cutting implementation issues; 
	8.	Decides that the meeting of the preparatory committee for the high-level review will be convened during the eighteenth session of the Commission on Sustainable Development, in accordance with Commission resolution 17/2 of 15 May 2009;7
	9.	Invites the participation of associate members of regional commissions in the high-level review, subject to the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, and in the preparatory process thereof, as observers, in the same capacity specified for their participation at the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, held in Mauritius from 10 to 14 January 2005;
	10.	Invites all Member States and States members of the specialized agencies, relevant regional and international agencies and organizations, in accordance with the rules of procedure of the Commission on Sustainable Development and the General Assembly, to participate fully in the preparatory activities and the high-level review; 
	11.	Urges that representation and participation at the high-level review be at the highest possible level, including with the participation of Heads of State or Government; 
	12.	Invites heads of the United Nations funds and programmes, the specialized agencies and regional commissions, as well as heads of intergovernmental organizations and entities having observer status in the General Assembly, to participate, as appropriate, in the review, in accordance with the rules and procedures as established by the General Assembly; 
	13.	Stresses the need for the effective participation of civil society, in particular non-governmental organizations and other major groups, in preparing for the high-level review, as well as the need to ensure appropriate arrangements, taking into account the practice and experience gained at the International Meeting held in Mauritius, for their substantive contributions to and active involvement in the preparatory meetings and the high-level review, and in this context invites the President of the General Assembly, in consultation with Member States, to propose to Member States appropriate modalities for their effective involvement in the high-level review; 
	14.	Encourages relevant major groups organizations that are not currently accredited by the Economic and Social Council to submit applications to participate as observers in the high-level review, as well as its preparatory meeting, in accordance with the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, following the accreditation procedures established during the International Meeting held in Mauritius; 
	15.	Acknowledges with appreciation the contribution of Member States and other international donors to support activities related to small island developing States, including through the voluntary trust fund; 
	16.	Invites Governments, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, other major groups and other donors to contribute to the voluntary trust fund for the purpose of assisting small island developing States in participating fully and effectively in the high-level review and the various preparatory processes; 
	17.	Urges Governments and all relevant international and regional organizations, United Nations funds and programmes, the specialized agencies and regional commissions, international financial institutions and the Global Environment Facility, as well as other intergovernmental organizations and major groups, to take timely action for the effective implementation of and follow-up to the Mauritius Declaration3 and the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation, including the further development and operationalization of concrete projects and programmes; 
	18.	Calls for the full and effective implementation of the commitments, programmes and targets adopted at the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States and, to this end, for the fulfilment of the provisions for the means of implementation, as contained in the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation, and encourages small island developing States and their development partners to continue to consult widely in order to develop further concrete projects and programmes for the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation; 
	19.	Encourages enhanced, closer and early consultation with small island developing States in the planning and coordination, as appropriate, of the activities related to the high-level review of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation, and emphasizes the importance of enhanced interaction between small island developing States and the relevant agencies of the United Nations system addressing issues concerning small island developing States; 
	20.	Reiterates the importance of providing the Small Island Developing States Unit with adequate, stable and predictable funding to facilitate the full and effective implementation of its mandates in accordance with the priority accorded to the Unit and in view of the demand for its services, in particular with respect to the provision of assistance, technical cooperation services and support to small island developing States; 
	21.	Also reiterates the importance of ensuring sufficient and sustainable staffing of the Small Island Developing States Unit so that it may undertake its broad range of mandated functions with a view to facilitating the full and effective implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation; 
	22.	Calls for the provision of new and additional voluntary resources to ensure the revitalization and sustainability of the Small Island Developing States Information Network, and in this regard welcomes the contribution of the Government of Spain to support the revitalization of the Network;
	23.	Calls upon the international community to enhance support for the efforts of small island developing States to adapt to the adverse impacts of climate change, including through the provision of dedicated sources of financing, capacity-building and the transfer of appropriate technologies to address climate change; 
	24.	Reiterates its request to the relevant agencies of the United Nations system, within their respective mandates, to intensify efforts aimed at mainstreaming the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation in their work programmes and to establish a focal point for matters related to small island developing States within their respective secretariats to support coordinated implementation of the Programme of Action at the national, subregional, regional and global levels; 
	25.	Calls upon the international community to enhance its support for the implementation of the programme of work on island biodiversity8 as a set of actions to address characteristics and problems that are specific to islands, adopted by the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity at its eighth meeting, in 2006; 
	26.	Calls for continued support for the design and implementation of national sustainable development strategies in all small island developing States; 
	27.	Encourages the implementation of partnership initiatives, within the framework of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation, in support of the sustainable development of small island developing States; 
	28.	Invites the small island developing States to consider, at their relevant intergovernmental meetings, assessments of and relevant contributions to the review process; 
	29.	Calls upon the international community to support the efforts to review progress made in addressing the vulnerabilities of small island developing States through the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation, including by facilitating the participation of small island developing States in review activities; 
	30.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-fifth session, under the item entitled "Sustainable development", the sub-item entitled "Follow-up to and implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States".

66th plenary meeting
21 December 2009
1 Report of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Bridgetown, Barbados, 25 April-6 May 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.94.I.18 and corrigenda), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
2 Ibid., annex II.
3 Report of the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Port Louis, Mauritius, 10-14 January 2005 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.05.II.A.4 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
4 Ibid., annex II.
5 See resolution 60/1.
6 A/64/278.
7 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2009, Supplement No. 9 (E/2009/29), chap. I, sect. B.
8 UNEP/CBD/COP/8/31, annex I, decision VIII/1, annex.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0947377E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/64/199<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________


------------------------------------------------------------


---------------


------------------------------------------------------------


3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/64/199General AssemblyDistr.: General
25 February 2010Sixty-fourth session
Agenda item 53 (b)

09-47377
*0947377*

A/RES/64/199


A/RES/64/199


4


5


