[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 21 December 2010
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/65/448)]
65/182.	Follow-up to the Second World Assembly on Ageing


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 57/167 of 18 December 2002, in which it endorsed the Political Declaration1 and the Madrid International Plan of Action on Ageing, 2002,2 its resolution 58/134 of 22 December 2003, in which it took note, inter alia, of the road map for the implementation of the Madrid Plan of Action, and its resolutions 60/135 of 16 December 2005, 61/142 of 19 December 2006, 62/130 of 18 December 2007, 63/151 of 18 December 2008 and 64/132 of 18 December 2009,
	Recognizing that, in many parts of the world, awareness of the Madrid Plan of Action remains limited or non-existent, which limits the scope of implementation efforts, 
	Taking note of the reports of the Secretary-General on the follow-up to the Second World Assembly on Ageing as well as the current status of the social situation, well-being, participation in development and rights of older persons,3
	1.	Reaffirms the Political Declaration1 and the Madrid International Plan of Action on Ageing, 2002;2
	2.	Encourages Governments to pay greater attention to building capacity to eradicate poverty among older persons, in particular older women, by mainstreaming ageing issues into poverty eradication strategies and national development plans, and to include both ageing-specific policies and ageing-mainstreaming efforts in their national strategies; 
	3.	Encourages Member States to strengthen their efforts to develop national capacity to address their national implementation priorities identified during the review and appraisal of the Madrid Plan of Action, and invites Member States that have not done so to consider a step-by-step approach to developing capacity that includes the setting of national priorities, the strengthening of institutional mechanisms, research, data collection and analysis and the training of necessary personnel in the field of ageing; 
	4.	Also encourages Member States to overcome obstacles to the implementation of the Madrid Plan of Action by devising strategies that take into account the entirety of the human life-course and foster intergenerational solidarity in order to increase the likelihood of greater success in the years ahead;
	5.	Further encourages Member States to place particular emphasis on choosing national priorities that are realistic, sustainable and feasible and have the greatest likelihood of being achieved in the years ahead and to develop targets and indicators to measure progress in the implementation process; 
	6.	Encourages all Member States to further implement the Madrid Plan of Action as an integral part of their national development plans and poverty eradication strategies; 
	7.	Invites Member States to identify key priority areas for the remainder of the first decade of implementation of the Madrid Plan of Action, including empowering older persons and promoting their rights, raising awareness of ageing issues and building national capacity on ageing; 
	8.	Recommends that Member States increase awareness-raising of the Madrid Plan of Action, including by strengthening networks of national focal points on ageing, working with the regional commissions and enlisting the help of the Department of Public Information of the Secretariat to seek increased attention for ageing issues;
	9.	Encourages Governments that have not done so to designate focal points for handling follow-up of national plans of action on ageing;
	10.	Invites Governments to conduct their ageing-related policies through inclusive and participatory consultations with relevant stakeholders and social development partners, in the interest of developing effective policies creating national policy ownership and consensus-building; 
	11.	Calls upon Governments to ensure, as appropriate, conditions that enable families and communities to provide care and protection to persons as they age, and to evaluate improvement in the health status of older persons, including on a gender-specific basis, and to reduce disability and mortality;
	12.	Encourages Governments to continue their efforts to implement the Madrid Plan of Action and to mainstream the concerns of older persons into their policy agendas, bearing in mind the crucial importance of family intergenerational interdependence, solidarity and reciprocity for social development and the realization of all human rights for older persons, and to prevent age discrimination and provide social integration;
	13.	Recognizes the importance of strengthening intergenerational partnerships and solidarity among generations, and in this regard calls upon Member States to promote opportunities for voluntary, constructive and regular interaction between young people and older generations in the family, the workplace and society at large;
	14.	Invites Member States to ensure that older persons have access to information about their rights so as to enable them to participate fully and justly in their societies and to claim full enjoyment of all human rights; 
	15.	Calls upon Member States to develop their national capacity for monitoring and enforcing the rights of older persons, in consultation with all sectors of society, including organizations of older persons through, inter alia, national institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights where applicable;
	16.	Also calls upon Member States to strengthen and incorporate a gender perspective into all policy actions on ageing, as well as to eliminate and address discrimination on the basis of age and gender, and recommends that Member States engage with all sectors of society, including women's groups and organizations of older persons, in changing negative stereotypes about older persons, in particular older women, and promote positive images of older persons; 
	17.	Further calls upon Member States to address the well-being and adequate health care of older persons, as well as any cases of neglect, abuse and violence against older persons, by designing more effective prevention strategies and stronger laws and policies to address these problems and their underlying factors; 
	18.	Calls upon Member States to take concrete measures to further protect and assist older persons in emergency situations, in accordance with the Madrid Plan of Action; 
	19.	Stresses that, in order to complement national development efforts, enhanced international cooperation is essential to support developing countries in implementing the Madrid Plan of Action, while recognizing the importance of assistance and the provision of financial assistance;
	20.	Encourages the international community to enhance international cooperation to support national efforts to eradicate poverty, in keeping with internationally agreed goals, in order to achieve sustainable social and economic support for older persons; 
	21.	Also encourages the international community to support national efforts to forge stronger partnerships with civil society, including organizations of older persons, academia, research foundations, community-based organizations, including caregivers, and the private sector, in an effort to help to build capacity on ageing issues;
	22.	Encourages the international community and the relevant agencies of the United Nations system, within their respective mandates, to support national efforts to provide funding for research and data-collection initiatives on ageing in order to better understand the challenges and opportunities presented by population ageing and to provide policymakers with more accurate and more specific information on gender and ageing; 
	23.	Recognizes the important role of various international and regional organizations that deal with training, capacity-building, policy design and monitoring at the national and regional levels in promoting and facilitating the implementation of the Madrid Plan of Action, and acknowledges the work that is undertaken in various parts of the world, as well as regional initiatives, and institutes such as the International Institute on Ageing in Malta and the European Centre for Social Welfare Policy and Research in Vienna;
	24.	Recommends that Member States reaffirm the role of United Nations focal points on ageing, increase technical cooperation efforts, expand the role of the regional commissions on ageing issues and provide added resources for those efforts, facilitate the coordination of national and international non-governmental organizations on ageing and enhance cooperation with academia on a research agenda on ageing; 
	25.	Reiterates the need for additional capacity-building at the national level in order to promote and facilitate further implementation of the Madrid Plan of Action, as well as the results of its first review and appraisal cycle, and in that connection encourages Governments to support the United Nations Trust Fund for Ageing to enable the Department of Economic and Social Affairs of the Secretariat to provide expanded assistance to countries, upon their request;
	26.	Requests the United Nations system to strengthen its capacity to support, in an efficient and coordinated manner, national implementation of the Madrid Plan of Action, where appropriate; 
	27.	Recommends that ongoing efforts to achieve the internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration,4 take into account the situation of older persons;
	28.	Decides to establish an open-ended working group, open to all States Members of the United Nations, for the purpose of strengthening the protection of the human rights of older persons by considering the existing international framework of the human rights of older persons and identifying possible gaps and how best to address them, including by considering, as appropriate, the feasibility of further instruments and measures, and requests the Secretary-General to provide all necessary support within existing resources for the duration of its mandate;
	29.	Also decides that the open-ended working group shall:
	(a)	Meet at United Nations Headquarters in New York;
	(b)	Decide on its calendar and programme of work by consensus at an organizational meeting early in 2011;
	30.	Invites States and relevant bodies and organizations of the United Nations system, including relevant human rights mandate holders and treaty bodies and the regional commissions, as well as intergovernmental and relevant non-governmental organizations with an interest in the matter, to make contributions to the work entrusted to the open-ended working group, as appropriate;
	31.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session a report on the implementation of the present resolution, including the situation of the rights of older persons in all regions of the world.

71st plenary meeting
21 December 2010
1 Report of the Second World Assembly on Ageing, Madrid, 8-12 April 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.IV.4), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
2 Ibid., annex II.
3 A/65/157 and A/65/158.
4 See resolution 55/2.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1052346E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/65/182<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/65/182General AssemblyDistr.: General
4 February 2011Sixty-fifth session
Agenda item 27 (c)

10-52346
*1052346*

A/RES/65/182

A/RES/65/182

4

3

