[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 22 December 2011
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/66/440/Add.1)]
66/197.	Implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the outcomes of the World Summit on Sustainable Development


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 55/199 of 20 December 2000, 56/226 of 24 December 2001, 57/253 and 57/270 A of 20 December 2002 and 57/270 B of 23 June 2003, as well as its resolutions 64/236 of 24 December 2009 and 65/152 of 20 December 2010 and all other relevant resolutions on the implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the outcomes of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, 
	Recalling also the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development,1 Agenda 21,2 the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21,3 the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development4 and the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation"),5 as well as the Monterrey Consensus of the International Conference on Financing for Development,6 the Doha Declaration on Financing for Development: outcome document of the Follow-up International Conference on Financing for Development to Review the Implementation of the Monterrey Consensus7 and the outcome document of the High-level Plenary Meeting of the General Assembly on the Millennium Development Goals,8 
	Recalling further its decision to hold the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in Brazil in 2012,9 
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;10 
	2.	Also takes note of the report of the Preparatory Committee for the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development on its second session,11 and endorses its decision 2/1, entitled "Process for the preparation of the draft outcome document for the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development", as contained in chapter VI of the report; 
	3.	Decides that the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development shall be held from 20 to 22 June 2012 in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, and recommends for adoption by the Conference the provisional agenda of the Conference as set forth in annex I to the present resolution;
	4.	Encourages Member States to be represented at the Conference at the highest possible level, including Heads of State or Government;
	5.	Decides that the Conference shall be composed of six plenary meetings, on the basis of two meetings a day, and four high-level round-table sessions, to be held in concurrence with the plenary meetings, except during the opening and closing plenary meetings;
	6.	Also decides that the Conference shall be organized in accordance with the organization of work set forth in annex II to the present resolution;
	7.	Notes the need to expedite the process for conclusion of the draft provisional rules of procedure of the Conference as early as possible in 2012 and, in this regard, notes the decision of the Bureau of the Preparatory Committee to initiate informal consultations on this matter to be concluded in a timely manner;
	8.	Calls upon all Member States to continue to actively engage in the preparatory process, and in the Conference itself, with a view to reaching a successful outcome of the Conference;
	9.	Decides that the third session of the Preparatory Committee shall be held from 13 to 15 June 2012 in Rio de Janeiro;
	10.	Strongly encourages Member States to conclude negotiations on the draft outcome document at the third session of the Preparatory Committee; 
	11.	Reiterates its request to the Secretary-General to continue to provide all appropriate support to the work of the preparatory process of the Conference and to the Conference itself and to ensure inter-agency cooperation and effective participation and coherence within the United Nations system, as well as the efficient use of resources, so that the objective and the two themes of the Conference can be addressed; 
	12.	Invites Member States, observers and all relevant stakeholders, including the regional commissions, United Nations organizations and bodies, other relevant intergovernmental and regional organizations, international financial institutions and major groups involved in sustainable development, to participate fully and effectively in the Conference and to provide ideas and proposals reflecting their experiences and lessons learned as a contribution to the preparatory process of the Conference, as agreed in the preparatory process by Member States; 
	13.	Encourages Governments, in their national preparations for the Conference, to continue to actively involve and to coordinate inputs from all national agencies responsible for economic development, social development and environmental protection; 
	14.	Emphasizes the importance of the support of the United Nations development system, as appropriate, for national preparations for the Conference, upon the request of national authorities;
	15.	Reiterates its deep concern that the resources available in the voluntary Trust Fund to Support the Work of the Commission on Sustainable Development are insufficient to fund the participation of representatives from developing countries, as well as representatives of major groups, in the meetings of the preparatory process of the Conference and in the Conference itself;
	16.	Urges international and bilateral donors and other countries and entities in a position to do so to provide contributions to the voluntary Trust Fund for the Conference in a timely manner and requests the Secretary-General to make further efforts to use the limited resources in the Trust Fund in an efficient, effective and transparent manner in order to enhance the active participation of representatives from developing countries in the preparatory process of the Conference (comprising the remaining intersessional meetings, informal informal negotiations and the third session of the Preparatory Committee), and in the Conference itself, and in this regard encourages the Secretary-General, when using the resources of the Trust Fund, to prioritize the coverage of economy-class air tickets, daily subsistence and terminal expenses; 
	17.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report on the outcome of the Conference to the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session; 
	18.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-seventh session, under the item entitled "Sustainable development", the sub-item entitled "Implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the outcomes of the World Summit on Sustainable Development", taking into account the outcome of the Conference.

91st plenary meeting
22 December 2011


Annex I
Provisional agenda of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 20 to 22 June 2012
1.	Opening of the Conference.
2.	Election of the President.
3.	Adoption of the rules of procedure.
4.	Adoption of the agenda of the Conference. 
5.	Election of officers other than the President.
6.	Organization of work, including the establishment of subsidiary bodies, and other organizational matters. 
7.	Credentials of representatives to the Conference:
	(a)	Appointment of the members of the Credentials Committee;
	(b)	Report of the Credentials Committee.
8.	General debate.
9.	Reports of the round tables.
10.	Outcome of the Conference.
11.	Adoption of the report of the Conference.
12.	Closure of the Conference.


Annex II
Proposed organization of work of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 20 to 22 June 2012
1.	The arrangements set out below have been formulated pursuant to General Assembly resolution 64/236. 
2.	The United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development will be held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, from 20 to 22 June 2012.

I.	Organization of work
A
Plenary meetings
3.	The United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development will consist of a total of six high-level plenary meetings to be held, as follows:
	Wednesday, 20 June 2012: from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 3 to 6 p.m.
	Thursday, 21 June 2012: from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 3 to 6 p.m.
	Friday, 22 June 2012: from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 3 to 6 p.m.
Evening sessions may be held, if required. All plenary meetings will be held at the Riocentro Exhibition and Convention Center. 
4.	The list of speakers for the plenary meetings will be established by the drawing of lots, in accordance with the customary protocol that ensures that Heads of State or Government speak first, followed by other heads of delegation. The Holy See, in its capacity as observer State, Palestine, in its capacity as observer, and the European Union, in its capacity as observer, will be included in the list of speakers. Statements will be limited to five minutes. Detailed arrangements will be communicated in a timely manner through a note by the Secretariat, prepared in close consultations with the host country and the Bureau of the Preparatory Committee. 
5.	The formal opening plenary meeting, to be held during the morning of Wednesday, 20 June, will consider all procedural and organizational matters, including the adoption of the rules of procedure and of the agenda, the election of the President of the Conference, the election of officers, the establishment of a Main Committee, the appointment of the members of the Credentials Committee and arrangements for the preparation of the report of the Conference, and other matters. The plenary meeting will also hear statements from the President of the Economic and Social Council and the nine major groups. 
6.	At the ceremonial opening of the Conference, which will be held on Wednesday, 20 June, during the afternoon plenary meeting, statements will be made by the President of the Conference, the President of the General Assembly, the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the Secretary-General of the Conference. 
7.	The closing plenary meeting, to be held during the afternoon of Friday, 22 June, is expected to conclude with the presentation of the summaries by the Rapporteurs of the high-level round tables and the adoption of the outcome document and the report of the Conference.

B
Main Committee
8.	A Main Committee, established in accordance with the rules of procedure of the Conference, will meet, if necessary, in parallel with plenary meetings except during the opening and closing meetings. The Main Committee would be seized with finalizing any outstanding matters.

C
High-level round tables
9.	The United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development will hold four high-level round-table sessions in parallel with the plenary meetings, as follows:
	Wednesday, 20 June 2012: from 4.30 to 7.30 p.m.
	Thursday, 21 June 2012: from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 3 to 6 p.m.
	Friday, 22 June 2012: from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.
10.	The four high-level round-table sessions will have a common theme: "Looking at the way forward in implementing the expected outcomes of the Conference".
11.	Each high-level round table will have two Co-Chairs and a Rapporteur, to be appointed by the President of the Conference from among the Heads of State or Government and ministers attending the Conference, in accordance with the principle of equitable geographical distribution and taking into account invitations for nominations to be extended to the Chairs of regional groups. 
12.	The outcomes of the round tables should be reflected in the summaries by the Rapporteurs, which should be submitted to the closing plenary meeting of the Conference and included in the final report of the Conference. 
13.	The four round-table sessions will be interactive and multi-stakeholder in nature, with seventy seats each: up to fifty for Government delegations and at least twenty for other participants, including representatives of observers, entities of the United Nations system and other accredited intergovernmental organizations and major groups. Member States and other participants are encouraged to be represented at the round tables at the highest possible level. Participants will be invited by the Secretariat to sign up for participation in one of the round tables in advance of the Conference, bearing in mind the total number of participants outlined above. The opening of the inscription for participation in the round tables will be announced in the Journal of the United Nations. 
14.	Any given State, observer, entity of the United Nations system or other accredited intergovernmental organization or representative of a major group may participate in only one of the round tables. Each participant may be accompanied by one adviser. 
15.	The list of participants in each round-table session will be made available prior to the meeting.
16.	The proceedings of the round tables will be telecast in an "overflow room" which will be open to the media and all other accredited participants.

II.	Credentials of representatives to the Conference: appointment of the members of the Credentials Committee
17.	A Credentials Committee will be appointed according to the rules of procedure of the Conference.

III.	Participants
A
Member States and observers
18.	The Conference, including the plenary and informal meetings, will be open to participation by all States Members of the United Nations, the Holy See, in its capacity as observer State, Palestine, in its capacity as observer, and the European Union, in its capacity as observer, as well as intergovernmental organizations and other entities having received a standing invitation from the General Assembly to participate as observers in the sessions and the work of all international conferences convened under its auspices, in accordance with the rules of procedure of the Conference.

B
Institutional stakeholders
19.	Other relevant intergovernmental organizations that were accredited to the World Summit on Sustainable Development and to the Commission on Sustainable Development, as well as relevant organizations of the United Nations system, may participate in the deliberations of the Conference, as appropriate, in accordance with the rules of procedure of the Conference. 
20.	In addition, interested intergovernmental organizations that were not accredited to the World Summit on Sustainable Development or to the Commission on Sustainable Development may apply to the General Assembly for accreditation following the established accreditation procedure. Online registration and accreditation forms will be available at the Conference website.12

C
Major groups
21.	Non-governmental organizations and other major groups that were accredited to the World Summit on Sustainable Development and those that are in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council are invited to participate in the deliberations of the Conference, as appropriate, in accordance with the rules of procedure of the Conference. 
22.	In addition, interested non-governmental organizations and other major groups that are not in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council or were not accredited to the World Summit on Sustainable Development or to the Commission on Sustainable Development may apply to the General Assembly for accreditation following the established accreditation procedure.13 

IV.	Secretariat
23.	The Secretary-General of the Conference serves as focal point within the Secretariat of the United Nations for providing support to the organization of the Conference, in cooperation with the host country authorities.

V.	Documentation
24.	In accordance with the practice followed at previous United Nations conferences, the official documentation of the Conference will include documents issued before, during and after the Conference. 
25.	In accordance with the practice followed at previous United Nations conferences, it is recommended that the report of the Conference consist of the decisions of the Conference, a brief account of the proceedings and a reportorial account of the work of the Conference and the action taken at the plenary meetings. 
26.	Summaries of the plenary meetings and high-level round-table discussions should also be included in the report of the Conference.

VI.	Organization of parallel meetings and other events of the Conference
27.	Parallel meetings and other events, including a partnership forum and learning centres, will be held during the same hours as the plenary meetings and the round tables, if they are held in the main building. The partnership forum and learning centres will constitute an official part of the Conference. Interpretation for such meetings will be provided on an as-available basis. 

VII.	Side events
28.	Special events, including briefings, seminars, workshops and panel discussions on issues related to sustainable development, will be organized by Member States, organizations of the United Nations system and accredited institutional and non-institutional stakeholders for the benefit of the participants in the Conference. Guidelines for organizing special events and the calendar of those events will be made available at the Conference website.12

VIII.	Media coverage
29.	Press materials will be prepared by the Department of Public Information of the Secretariat for journalists covering the Conference. In addition, regular press releases will be issued on the results of plenary meetings, round tables and other events. All relevant documentation will be made available electronically at the Conference website.12
30.	The plenary meetings and round tables, as well as press conferences, will be broadcast live to the media area. A programme of special media briefings and press conferences will be announced.
1 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992, vol. I, Resolutions Adopted by the Conference (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum), resolution 1, annex I.
2 Ibid., annex II.
3 Resolution S-19/2, annex.
4 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 
26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
5 Ibid., resolution 2, annex.
6 Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico, 
18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
7 Resolution 63/239, annex.
8 See resolution 65/1.
9 See resolution 64/236, para. 20.
10 A/66/287.
11 A/CONF.216/PC/9.
12 http://www.uncsd2012.org/rio20.
13 See decision 66/544.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1147064E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/66/197<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/66/197General AssemblyDistr.: General
9 February 2012Sixty-sixth session
Agenda item 19 (a)

11-47064
*1147064*

A/RES/66/197

A/RES/66/197

8

7

