[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 18 December 2009
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/64/441)]
64/182.	International cooperation against the world drug problem


	The General Assembly,
	Reaffirming the Political Declaration adopted by the General Assembly at its twentieth special session,1 the Declaration on the Guiding Principles of Drug Demand Reduction,2 the Action Plan on International Cooperation on the Eradication of Illicit Drug Crops and on Alternative Development,3 the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Declaration on the Guiding Principles of Drug Demand Reduction4 and the joint ministerial statement adopted at the ministerial segment of the forty-sixth session of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs,5
	Recalling the United Nations Millennium Declaration,6 the provisions of the 2005 World Summit Outcome7 addressing the world drug problem, the Political Declaration on HIV/AIDS8 and other relevant United Nations resolutions, including General Assembly resolution 63/197 of 18 December 2008 and those on regional and international cooperation to prevent the diversion and smuggling of precursors,
	Gravely concerned that, despite continuing increased efforts by States, relevant organizations, civil society and non-governmental organizations, the world drug problem continues to constitute a serious threat to public health and safety and the well-being of humanity, in particular children and young people and their families, and to the national security and sovereignty of States, and that it undermines socio-economic and political stability and sustainable development,
	Welcoming the outcome of the high-level segment of the fifty-second session of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs,9 and in that regard recalling resolution 63/197, in which the General Assembly decided to consider the results of the high-level segment at a plenary meeting of the Assembly at its sixty-fourth session,
	Recalling resolutions adopted by the Commission on Narcotic Drugs at its fifty-second session,10 in particular resolutions 52/2, 52/3, 52/4 and 52/10 of 20 March 2009, and noting the outcomes of all the round-table discussions of the high-level segment of that session,9
	Reaffirming that countering the world drug problem in all its aspects requires a political commitment to reducing supply, as an integral component of a balanced and comprehensive drug control strategy, in accordance with the principles enshrined in the Political Declaration adopted by the General Assembly at its twentieth special session and the measures to enhance international cooperation to counter the drug problem,11 including the Action Plan on International Cooperation on the Eradication of Illicit Drug Crops and on Alternative Development, also adopted at that session, 
	Reaffirming equally that reducing illicit drug use and its consequences requires a political commitment to efforts to reduce demand, which must be demonstrated by sustained widespread demand reduction initiatives that integrate a comprehensive public health approach spanning the spectrum of prevention, education, early intervention, treatment, recovery support, rehabilitation and reintegration efforts, in accordance with the Declaration on the Guiding Principles of Drug Demand Reduction, adopted by the General Assembly at its twentieth special session,
	Recognizing that international cooperation in demand reduction and supply reduction has shown that positive results can be achieved through sustained and collective efforts, and expressing its appreciation for the initiatives in this regard,
	Reaffirming that the world drug problem remains a common and shared responsibility that requires effective and increased international cooperation and demands an integrated, multidisciplinary, mutually reinforcing and balanced approach to supply and demand reduction strategies,
	1.	Adopts the Political Declaration and Plan of Action on International Cooperation towards an Integrated and Balanced Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem, as adopted at the high-level segment of the fifty-second session of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs,12 and calls upon States to take the measures necessary to fully implement the actions set out therein, with a view to attaining in a timely manner their goals and targets;
	2.	Reaffirms that countering the world drug problem is a common and shared responsibility that must be addressed in a multilateral setting, requires an integrated and balanced approach and must be carried out in full conformity with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and other provisions of international law, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,13 and the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action14 on human rights, and, in particular, with full respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States, for the principle of non-intervention in the internal affairs of States and for all human rights and fundamental freedoms, and on the basis of the principles of equal rights and mutual respect;
	3.	Undertakes to promote bilateral, regional and international cooperation, including through intelligence-sharing and cross-border cooperation, aimed at countering the world drug problem more effectively, in particular by encouraging and supporting such cooperation by those States most directly affected by illicit crop cultivation and the illicit production, manufacture, transit, trafficking, distribution and abuse of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances;
	4.	Reiterates the commitment of Member States to promoting, developing, reviewing or strengthening effective, comprehensive, integrated drug demand reduction programmes, based on scientific evidence and covering a range of measures, including primary prevention, early intervention, treatment, care, rehabilitation, social reintegration and related support services, aimed at promoting health and social well-being among individuals, families and communities and reducing the adverse consequences of drug abuse for individuals and society as a whole, taking into account the particular challenges posed by high-risk drug users, in full compliance with the three international drug control conventions and in accordance with national legislation, and commits Member States to investing increased resources in ensuring access to those interventions on a non-discriminatory basis, including in detention facilities, bearing in mind that those interventions should also consider vulnerabilities that undermine human development, such as poverty and social marginalization; 
	5.	Notes with great concern the adverse consequences of drug abuse for individuals and society as a whole, reaffirms the commitment of all Member States to tackling those problems in the context of comprehensive, complementary and multisectoral drug demand reduction strategies, in particular such strategies targeting youth, also notes with great concern the alarming rise in the incidence of HIV/AIDS and other blood-borne diseases among injecting drug users, reaffirms the commitment of all Member States to working towards the goal of universal access to comprehensive prevention programmes and treatment, care and related support services, in full compliance with the international drug control conventions and in accordance with national legislation, taking into account all relevant General Assembly resolutions and, when applicable, the WHO, UNODC, UNAIDS Technical Guide for Countries to Set Targets for Universal Access to HIV Prevention, Treatment and Care for Injecting Drug Users,15 and requests the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime to carry out its mandate in this area in close cooperation with relevant organizations and programmes of the United Nations system, such as the World Health Organization, the United Nations Development Programme and the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS);
	6.	Acknowledges the continuing efforts made and progress achieved in countering the world drug problem, notes with great concern the unprecedented surge in the illicit production of and trafficking in opium, the continuing illicit manufacture of and trafficking in cocaine, the increasing illicit production of and trafficking in cannabis and the increasing diversion of precursors, as well as the related distribution and use of illicit drugs, and stresses the need to strengthen and intensify joint efforts at the national, regional and international levels to tackle those global challenges in a more comprehensive manner, in accordance with the principle of common and shared responsibility, including by means of enhanced and better coordinated technical and financial assistance; 
	7.	Recognizes that:
	(a)	Sustainable crop control strategies targeting the illicit cultivation of crops used for the production of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances require international cooperation based on the principle of shared responsibility and an integrated and balanced approach, taking into account the rule of law and, where appropriate, security concerns, with full respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States, the principle of non-intervention in the internal affairs of States and all human rights and fundamental freedoms;
	(b)	Such crop control strategies include, inter alia, alternative development and, where appropriate, preventive alternative development programmes, eradication and law enforcement measures;
	(c)	Such crop control strategies should be in full conformity with article 14 of the United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of 198816 and appropriately coordinated and phased in accordance with national policies in order to achieve the sustainable eradication of illicit crops, noting furthermore the need for Member States to undertake to increase long-term investment in such strategies, coordinated with other development measures, in order to contribute to the sustainability of social and economic development and poverty eradication in affected rural areas, taking due account of the traditional licit uses of crops where there is historical evidence of such use and giving due consideration to the protection of the environment;
	8.	Also recognizes the significant role played by developing countries with extensive expertise in alternative development in promoting best practices and lessons learned from such programmes, and invites them to continue sharing those best practices with States affected by illicit crop cultivation, including those emerging from conflict, with a view to using them, where appropriate, in accordance with the national specificities of each State; 
	9.	Stresses the urgent need to respond to the serious challenges posed by the increasing links between drug trafficking, corruption and other forms of organized crime, including trafficking in human beings, trafficking in firearms, cybercrime and, in some cases, terrorism and money-laundering, including money-laundering in connection with the financing of terrorism, and to the significant challenges faced by law enforcement and judicial authorities in responding to the ever-changing means used by transnational criminal organizations to avoid detection and prosecution; 
	10.	Reaffirms the importance of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime and its regional offices in building capacity at the local level in the fight against transnational organized crime and drug trafficking, and urges the Office to consider regional vulnerabilities, projects and impact in the fight against drug trafficking, in particular in developing countries, when deciding to close and allocate offices, with a view to maintaining an effective level of support to national and regional efforts in combating the world drug problem;
	11.	Urges the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime to increase collaboration with intergovernmental, international and relevant regional organizations involved in combating the world drug problem, as appropriate, in order to share best practices and to maximize the benefits from their unique comparative advantage;
	12.	Recognizes the need to collect relevant data and information regarding international cooperation for countering the world drug problem at the national, bilateral, subregional, regional and international levels, and urges all Member States to support dialogue through the Commission on Narcotic Drugs in order to address this issue;
	13.	Requests the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, upon request, to continue providing technical assistance to Member States so as to enhance capacity in countering the world drug problem, including by carrying out training programmes to develop indicators and instruments for the collection and analysis of accurate, reliable and comparable data on all relevant aspects of the world drug problem and, where appropriate, the enhancement or development of new national indicators and instruments;
	14.	Urges all Governments to provide the fullest possible financial and political support to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime by widening its donor base and increasing voluntary contributions, in particular general-purpose contributions, so as to enable it to continue, expand, improve and strengthen its operational and technical cooperation activities, within its mandates, in particular with a view to the full implementation of the Political Declaration adopted by the General Assembly at its twentieth special session1 and the Political Declaration and Plan of Action on International Cooperation towards an Integrated and Balanced Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem adopted at the high-level segment of the fifty-second session of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, as well as, where appropriate, relevant resolutions adopted by the Commission at that session,10 and recommends that a sufficient share of the regular budget of the United Nations continue to be allocated to the Office to enable it to carry out its mandates in a consistent and stable manner;
	15.	Encourages the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, as the principal policymaking organ of the United Nations on matters of international drug control and as the governing body of the drug programme of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, and the International Narcotics Control Board to strengthen their useful work on the control of precursors and other chemicals used in the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances;
	16.	Urges States that have not done so to consider ratifying or acceding to, and States parties to implement, as a matter of priority, all the provisions of the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961 as amended by the 1972 Protocol,17 the Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1971,18 the United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of 1988, the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the Protocols thereto19 and the United Nations Convention against Corruption;20
	17.	Urges all Member States to implement the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Declaration on the Guiding Principles of Drug Demand Reduction4 and to strengthen their national efforts to counter the abuse of illicit drugs in their populations, in particular among children and young people; 
	18.	Takes note of the outcome of the high-level segment of the fifty-second session of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs,9 the World Drug Report 2009 of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime21 and the most recent report of the International Narcotics Control Board,22 and calls upon States to strengthen international and regional cooperation to counter the threat to the international community caused by the illicit production of and trafficking in drugs, as well as other aspects of the world drug problem, and to continue to take concerted measures, such as within the framework of the Paris Pact23 and other relevant international initiatives;
	19.	Notes that the International Narcotics Control Board needs sufficient resources to carry out all its mandates, reaffirms the importance of its work, encourages it to continue to carry out its work in accordance with its mandates, urges Member States to commit themselves in a common effort to assigning, where possible, adequate and sufficient budgetary resources to the Board, in accordance with Economic and Social Council resolution 1996/20 of 23 July 1996, emphasizes the need to maintain its capacity, inter alia, through the provision of appropriate means by the Secretary-General and adequate technical support from the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, and calls for enhanced cooperation and understanding between Member States and the Board to enable it to implement all its mandates under the international drug control conventions;
	20.	Welcomes the important role played by civil society, in particular non-governmental organizations, in addressing the world drug problem, notes with appreciation their important contribution to the review process, and also notes that representatives of affected populations and civil society entities, where appropriate, should be enabled to play a participatory role in the formulation and implementation of drug demand and supply reduction policy;
	21.	Recommends that the Economic and Social Council devote one of its high-level segments to a theme related to the world drug problem, and also recommends that the General Assembly hold a special session to address the world drug problem;
	22.	Encourages the meetings of Heads of National Drug Law Enforcement Agencies and of the Subcommission on Illicit Drug Traffic and Related Matters in the Near and Middle East of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs to continue to contribute to the strengthening of regional and international cooperation, and in this regard acknowledges the discussions that took place at the nineteenth meeting of Heads of National Drug Law Enforcement Agencies, Latin America and the Caribbean, held on Isla Margarita, Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, from 28 September to 2 October 2009, on how to improve cooperation among the States of Latin America and the Caribbean and the States of West Africa in combating drug trafficking;24
	23.	Welcomes the ongoing efforts to strengthen regional cooperation in combating illicit trafficking in drugs and the diversion of precursor chemicals undertaken by the members of the Commonwealth of Independent States, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, the Economic Cooperation Organization, the Collective Security Treaty Organization, the Eurasian Group on Combating Money-Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and other relevant subregional and regional organizations, including the adoption of the plan of action on combating terrorism, illicit drug trafficking and organized crime at the special conference held under the auspices of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization in Moscow on 27 March 200925 and the efforts undertaken within the framework of the permanent counter-narcotics mechanism "Channel";
	24.	Acknowledges other ongoing regional efforts to combat illicit trafficking in drugs, such as those of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations Senior Officials on Drug Matters, who adopted the Association workplan on combating illicit drug production, trafficking and use (2009-2015) at their thirtieth meeting, held in Phnom Penh from 29 September to 20 October 2009, with the aim of achieving a drug-free South-East Asia by 2015;
	25.	Calls upon the relevant United Nations agencies and entities and other international organizations, and invites international financial institutions, including regional development banks, to mainstream drug control issues into their programmes, and calls upon the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime to maintain its leading role by providing relevant information and technical assistance;
	26.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General,26 and requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session a report on the implementation of the present resolution.

65th plenary meeting
18 December 2009
1 Resolution S-20/2, annex.
2 Resolution S-20/3, annex.
3 Resolution S-20/4 E.
4 Resolution 54/132, annex.
5 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2003, Supplement No. 8 (E/2003/28/Rev.1), chap. I, sect. C; see also A/58/124, sect. II.A.
6 See resolution 55/2.
7 See resolution 60/1.
8 Resolution 60/262, annex.
9 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2009, Supplement No. 8 (E/2009/28), chap. X; see also A/64/92-E/2009/98, sect. II.
10 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2009, Supplement No. 8 (E/2009/28), chap. I, sect. C.
11 Resolutions S-20/4 A-E.
12 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2009, Supplement No. 8 (E/2009/28), chap. I, sect. C; see also A/64/92-E/2009/98, sect. II.A.
13 Resolution 217 A (III).
14 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
15 Available from www.who.int/hiv/pub/idu/targetsetting/en/index.html.
16 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1582, No. 27627.
17 Ibid., vol. 976, No. 14152.
18 Ibid., vol. 1019, No. 14956.
19 Ibid., vols. 2225, 2237, 2241 and 2326, No. 39574.
20 Ibid., vol. 2349, No. 42146.
21 United Nations publication, Sales No. E.09.XI.12.
22 United Nations publication, Sales No. E.09.XI.1.
23 See S/2003/641, annex.
24 See UNODC/HONLAC/19/5.
25 See A/63/805-S/2009/177, annex I.
26 A/64/120.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0947275E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/64/182<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/64/182General AssemblyDistr.: General
30 March 2010Sixty-fourth session
Agenda item 105

09-47275
*0947275*

A/RES/64/182

A/RES/64/182

6

7

