[COMMENT1]UNITED									A
NATIONS



             General Assembly


                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/54/94
                                                                          28 January 2000

                                                                          



Fifty-fourth session
Agenda item 31


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[without reference to a Main Committee (A/54/L.38 and Add.1)]


54/94.	Cooperation between the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity

    The General Assembly,

    Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on cooperation between the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity,1

    Recalling the provisions of Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United Nations on regional arrangements or agencies, which set forth the basic principles governing their activities and establishing the legal framework for cooperation with the United Nations in the area of the maintenance of international peace and security, as well as resolution 49/57 of 9 December 1994, the annex to which contains the Declaration on the Enhancement of Cooperation between the United Nations and Regional Arrangements or Agencies in the Maintenance of International Peace and Security,

    Recalling also the agreement of 15 November 1965 on cooperation between the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity2 as updated and signed on 9 October 1990 by the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the Secretary-General of the Organization of African Unity,3
    

    Recalling further all its resolutions on the enhancement of cooperation between the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity, including resolution 53/91 of 7 December 1998,

    Recalling that, in its resolutions 46/20 of 26 November 1991, 47/148 of 18 December 1992 and 48/25 of 29 November 1993, it, inter alia, urged the Secretary-General and the relevant agencies of the United Nations system to continue to extend their support for the establishment of the African Economic Community,

    Recalling also its resolution 48/214 of 23 December 1993 on the implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s,4

    Taking note of the Algiers Declaration and the declarations and decisions adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity at its thirty-fifth ordinary session, held at Algiers from 12 to 14 July 1999,5

    Taking note also of the decisions contained in the Sirte Declaration adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity at its fourth extraordinary session, held at Sirte, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, on 8 and 9 September 1999,6

    Mindful of the need for continued and closer cooperation between the United Nations and its specialized agencies and the Organization of African Unity in the field of peace and security and in the political, economic, social, technical, cultural and administrative fields,

    Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General on the causes of conflict and the promotion of durable peace and sustainable development in Africa,7

    Noting that the Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution in Africa of the Organization of African Unity is steadily developing its capacity in conflict prevention and resolution,

    Noting also the efforts of the Organization of African Unity, and the assistance of the United Nations, to promote the peaceful settlement of disputes and conflicts and the continuation of the process of democratization in Africa,

    Welcoming decision CM/Dec.482 (LXX) of 1999, adopted by the Council of Ministers of the Organization of African Unity, concerning the establishment of a special committee on children and armed conflict, in the light of the gravity of the situation of children affected by armed conflict,8
    
    Deeply concerned that, despite the policies of reform being implemented by African countries, their economic situation remains critical and African recovery and development continue to be severely hindered by, inter alia, the persistence of lower commodity prices and the heavy debt burden, and they are  substantially affected by the levels of official development assistance and foreign direct investment, as well as the ongoing conflicts in some regions of the continent,

    Aware of the efforts being made by the Organization of African Unity and its member States in the area of economic integration and of the need to accelerate the process of implementation of the Treaty establishing the African Economic Community,9

    Recalling the convening of the Organization of African Unity Ministerial Conference on Refugees, Returnees and Displaced Persons in Africa at Khartoum, on 13 and 14 December 1998,

    Acknowledging the assistance already rendered by the international community to refugees, internally displaced persons and host countries in Africa,

    Stressing that the gravity of the situation of refugees and internally displaced persons and of host countries in Africa requires urgent and increased international assistance,

    Recalling the convening by the Organization of African Unity of the first Ministerial Conference on Human Rights in Africa at Grand Bay, Mauritius, from 12 to 16 April 1999,

    Recognizing the importance of developing and maintaining a culture of peace, tolerance and harmonious relationships based on economic development, democratic principles, good governance, social justice and international cooperation,

    1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on cooperation between the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity1 and of his efforts to strengthen that cooperation and to implement the relevant resolutions;

    2.	Notes the contribution made by the United Nations Liaison Office with the Organization of African Unity since its establishment in April 1998;

    3.	Notes with appreciation the continued and increasing participation of the Organization of African Unity in the work of the United Nations, its organs and specialized agencies, and its constructive contribution to that work;

    4.	Calls upon the United Nations organs, in particular the Security Council and the Economic and Social Council, to enhance the involvement of the Organization of African Unity in all their activities concerning Africa;




    5.	Expresses its appreciation for the report of the Secretary-General on the causes of conflict and the promotion of durable peace and sustainable development in Africa,7 and encourages the early implementation of the recommendations contained therein by the United Nations, its organs and specialized agencies, in their respective areas of competence, as well as by Member States;

    6.	Calls upon the United Nations to enhance its cooperation, coordination and exchange of information with the Organization of African Unity, in the following areas:

    (a)	Prevention of conflict through the promotion of a culture of peace, tolerance and harmonious relations in Africa;

    (b)	Peaceful settlement of disputes and maintenance of international peace and security in Africa, as provided for under Chapter VIII of the Charter of the United Nations;

    7.	Invites the United Nations to intensify its assistance to the Organization of African Unity in strengthening the institutional and operational capacity of its Mechanism for Conflict Prevention, Management and Resolution in Africa, in particular in the following areas:

    (a)	Development of its early-warning system;

    (b)	Technical assistance and training of civilian and military personnel, including a staff exchange programme;

    (c)	Exchange and coordination of information, including between the early-warning systems of the two organizations;

    (d)	Logistical support, including in the area of demining;

    (e)	Mobilization of financial support, including through the trust funds of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity;

    8.	Urges the United Nations to encourage donor countries, in consultation with the Organization of African Unity, to provide adequate funding and training for African countries in their efforts to enhance their peacekeeping capabilities, with a view to enabling those countries to participate actively in peacekeeping operations within the framework of the United Nations;

    9.	Calls upon all Member States and regional and international organizations, in particular those of the United Nations system, as well as non-governmental organizations, to provide appropriate assistance to refugees and internally displaced persons, as well as to the African host countries, and to ensure the security and neutrality of refugee camps and settlements;







    10.	Encourages the United Nations, through the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict, to assist the Organization of African Unity and its special committee on children and armed conflict in their efforts to ensure the protection and the welfare of children affected by conflicts in Africa;

    11.	Notes with appreciation the assistance provided by the United Nations and its agencies to African countries in the context of strengthening the democratization process, and calls for the continuation of this support in the areas of education for democracy, election observation, human rights, freedom and the rule of law, including technical support to the African Commission on Human and People's Rights;

    12.	Welcomes the priority accorded by the United Nations system to African development and, in this regard, stresses the need to continue and increase economic and technical assistance to African countries;

    13.	Urges the Secretary-General, Member States and regional and international organizations, in particular those of the United Nations system, to support the strengthening of the African Economic Community;

    14.	Requests the agencies of the United Nations system working in Africa to include in their programmes at the national, subregional and regional levels activities that will enhance African regional economic cooperation and integration;

    15.	Calls upon the United Nations agencies to intensify the coordination of their regional programmes in Africa in order to enhance linkages among them, ensure the effective harmonization of their programmes with those of the African regional and subregional economic organizations and create a positive environment for investment;

    16.	Emphasizes the urgent need to implement effectively the recommendations arising from the mid-term review of the implementation of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s;10

    17.	Invites the Secretary-General to encourage the closer involvement of the Organization of African Unity in the implementation, follow-up and evaluation of the United Nations New Agenda for the Development of Africa in the 1990s and beyond, including the conduct of the final review of the implementation of the New Agenda in 2002;

    18.	Calls upon the international community to support and enhance the capacity of African countries to take advantage of the opportunities offered by globalization and to overcome the challenges it poses, as a means of ensuring sustained economic growth and sustainable development;

    19.	Invites the Secretary-General to develop new effective strategies for the implementation of the recommendations of the annual meeting of the secretariats of the Organization of African Unity and the United Nations, held from 6 to 8 May 1998, as agreed upon by the two organizations in their follow-up meeting held on 21 September 1999;


    20.	Calls upon the relevant organizations of the United Nations system to ensure the effective and equitable representation of African men and women at senior and policy levels at their respective headquarters and in their regional field of operations;

    21.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session on the implementation of the present resolution.

	73rd  plenary meeting
	8 December 1999

1 A/54/484.
2 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 548, No. 614 (Part II).
3 Ibid., vol. 1580, No. 1044 (Part II).
4 Resolution 46/151, annex.
5 A/54/424, annex II.
6 A/54/621, annex.
7 A/52/871-S/1998/318; see Official Records of the Security Council, Fifty-third Year, Supplement for April, May and June 1998, document S/1998/318.
8 See A/54/424, annex I.
9 A/46/651.
10 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-first Session, Supplement No. 48 (A/51/48).
[COMMENT1]
<<ODS JOB NO>>N0024559E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/54/94<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------


00 24559	/...


00 24559	/...

A/RES/53/
Page 


	A/RES/54/94
	Page 


A/RES/53/
Page 



	/...


	/...

A/RES/54/94
Page 




	A/RES/54/94
	Page 








