[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 22 December 2005
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/60/489)]
60/203.	Implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and strengthening of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 3327 (XXIX) of 16 December 1974, 32/162 of 19 December 1977, 34/115 of 14 December 1979, 56/205 and 56/206 of 21 December 2001, 57/275 of 20 December 2002, 58/226 and 58/227 of 23 December 2003 and 59/239 of 22 December 2004,
	Taking note of Economic and Social Council resolutions 2002/38 of 26 July 2002 and 2003/62 of 25 July 2003 and Council decisions 2004/300 of 23 July 2004 and 2005/298 of 26 July 2005,
	Recalling the goal contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration1 of achieving a significant improvement in the lives of at least 100 million slum-dwellers by 2020 and the goal contained in the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation")2 to halve, by 2015, the proportion of people who lack access to safe drinking water and sanitation,
	Recalling also the Habitat Agenda,3 the Declaration on Cities and Other Human Settlements in the New Millennium,4 the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development,5 the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation and the Monterrey Consensus of the International Conference on Financing for Development,6
	Recalling further the 2005 World Summit Outcome,7
	Recalling the decisions of the Commission on Sustainable Development at its thirteenth session related to the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat) and human settlements,8
	Recognizing that the overall thrust and strategic vision of UN-Habitat and its emphasis on the two global campaigns on secure tenure and urban governance are strategic points of entry for the effective implementation of the Habitat Agenda, especially for guiding international cooperation in respect of adequate shelter for all and sustainable human settlements development, 
	Conscious of the unique opportunity provided by the Cities Without Slums Initiative mentioned in the Millennium Declaration for realizing economies of scale and substantial multiplier effects in helping to attain the other Millennium Development Goals, 
	Acknowledging the significance of the urban dimension of poverty eradication and the need to integrate water and sanitation issues within a broad-based approach to human settlements, 
	Expressing its appreciation to the regular Assembly of Ministers and High-level Authorities of the Housing and Urban Development Sector in Latin America and the Caribbean and its recent plan of action on the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals, 
	Expressing its appreciation also to the African Union, UN-Habitat and the Government of South Africa for convening and hosting the first African conference of housing and urban development ministers in Durban from 31 January to 4 February 2005, which established the African Ministerial Conference on Housing and Urban Development to promote sustainable human settlements in Africa,
	Expressing its appreciation further to the Government of Canada and the city of Vancouver for their willingness to host the third session of the World Urban Forum in June 2006 and to the Government of China and the city of Nanjing for their willingness to host the fourth session of the World Urban Forum in 2008,
	Taking note of the reports entitled The State of the World's Cities 2004-2005: Globalization and Urban Culture9 and the Global Report on Human Settlements 2005: Financing Urban Shelter,10
	Noting the efforts by UN-Habitat to strengthen its collaboration with the United Nations Development Programme, the World Bank and other international organizations and its participation in the Executive Committee on Humanitarian Affairs,
	Recognizing the continued urgent need for increased and predictable financial contributions to the United Nations Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation to ensure timely, effective and concrete global implementation of the Habitat Agenda, the Declaration on Cities and Other Human Settlements in the New Millennium and the relevant internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the Millennium Declaration and the Johannesburg Declaration and Plan of Implementation, and the relevant decisions of the Commission on Sustainable Development at its thirteenth session,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Governing Council of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme on the work of its twentieth session,11 the report of the Secretary-General on the coordinated implementation of the Habitat Agenda12 and the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and strengthening of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat);13
	2.	Encourages Governments to consider an enhanced approach to achieving the Cities Without Slums Initiative mentioned in the United Nations Millennium Declaration1 by upgrading existing slums and creating policies and programmes, according to national circumstances, to forestall the growth of future slums, and in this regard invites the international donor community and multilateral and regional development banks to support the efforts of developing countries, inter alia, through increased voluntary financial assistance;
	3.	Recognizes that Governments have the primary responsibility for the sound and effective implementation of the Habitat Agenda,3 the Declaration on Cities and Other Human Settlements in the New Millennium4 and the Millennium Declaration, and stresses the need for the international community to fully implement commitments to support Governments of developing countries and countries with economies in transition in their efforts, through the provision of the requisite resources, capacity-building, the transfer of technology and the creation of an international enabling environment;
	4.	Calls for continued financial support to UN-Habitat through increased voluntary contributions to the United Nations Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation, and invites Governments to provide multi-year funding to support programme implementation;
	5.	Also calls for increased, non-earmarked contributions to the Foundation;
	6.	Requests the Secretary-General to keep the resource needs of UN-Habitat under review so as to enhance its effectiveness in supporting national policies, strategies and plans in attaining the poverty eradication, gender equality, water and sanitation and slum upgrading targets of the Millennium Declaration and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation;
	7.	Emphasizes the need for UN-Habitat to develop a results-based and less fragmented budget structure with a view to securing maximum efficiency, accountability and transparency in programme delivery regardless of funding source;
	8.	Requests the Secretary-General to keep the resource needs of UN-Habitat and the United Nations Office at Nairobi under review so as to permit the delivery, in an effective manner, of necessary services to UN-Habitat and the other United Nations organs and organizations in Nairobi;
	9.	Invites the international donor community and financial institutions to contribute generously to the Water and Sanitation Trust Fund, the Slum Upgrading Facility and the technical cooperation trust funds to enable UN-Habitat to assist developing countries to mobilize public investment and private capital for slum upgrading, shelter and basic services;
	10.	Acknowledges contributions of the regional consultative initiatives, including conferences of ministers in the area of human settlements, for implementation of the Habitat Agenda and the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals, and invites the international community to support such efforts;
	11.	Stresses the importance of publishing the financial rules and regulations of the United Nations Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation in time for their adoption no later than the end of 2005;
	12.	Requests UN-Habitat to intensify coordination in the framework of the United Nations Development Assistance Framework and the common country assessment and to continue to work with the World Bank, regional development banks, other development banks, regional organizations and other relevant partners to field-test innovative policies, practices and pilot projects in order to mobilize resources to increase the supply of affordable credit for slum upgrading and other pro-poor human settlements development in developing countries and countries with economies in transition;
	13.	Invites all Governments to participate actively in the third session of the World Urban Forum, and invites donor countries to support the participation of representatives from developing countries, in particular the least developed countries, and countries with economies in transition, including women and youth, in the Forum;
	14.	Encourages Governments to establish local, national and regional urban observatories and to provide financial and substantive support to UN-Habitat for the further development of methodologies for data collection, analysis and dissemination;
	15.	Recognizes the important role and contribution of UN-Habitat in supporting the efforts of countries affected by natural disasters and complex emergencies to develop prevention, rehabilitation and reconstruction programmes for the transition from relief to development, and in this regard requests UN-Habitat, within its mandate, to continue to work closely with other relevant agencies in the United Nations system, and invites the Inter-Agency Standing Committee to consider including UN-Habitat in its membership;
	16.	Requests UN-Habitat, through its involvement in the Executive Committee on Humanitarian Affairs and through contacts with relevant United Nations agencies and partners in the field, to promote the early involvement of human settlements experts in the assessment and development of prevention, rehabilitation and reconstruction programmes to support the efforts of developing countries affected by natural disasters and other complex humanitarian emergencies;
	17.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the General Assembly at its sixty-first session on the implementation of the present resolution;
	18.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-first session the item entitled "Implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and strengthening of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)".

68th plenary meeting
22 December 2005
1 See resolution 55/2.
2 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-
4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 2, annex.
3 Report of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II), Istanbul, 3-14 June 1996 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.97.IV.6), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
4 Resolution S-25/2, annex.
5 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-
4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
6 Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico, 18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
7 See resolution 60/1.
8 Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2005, Supplement No. 9 (E/2005/29), chap. I, sect. C.
9 United Nations publication, Sales No. 04.III.Q.2.
10 United Nations publication, Sales No. 05.III.Q.1.
11 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixtieth Session, Supplement No. 8 (A/60/8).
12 E/2005/60.
13 A/60/168.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0549978E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/60/203<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/60/203General AssemblyDistr.: General
13 March 2006Sixtieth session
Agenda item 53

05-49978

A/RES/60/203

A/RES/60/203

4

3

