[COMMENT1]UNITED		A
NATIONS




         General Assembly
                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/54/262
                                                                          16 June 2000



Fifty-fourth session
Agenda item 106


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[without reference to a Main Committee (A/54/L.85)]


54/262.	Follow-up to the International Year of Older Persons: Second World Assembly on Ageing

    The General Assembly,


    Recalling the World Assembly on Ageing, held at Vienna in 1982, which adopted the International Plan of Action on Ageing,1 

    Reaffirming the importance of the United Nations Principles for Older Persons, as adopted by its resolution 46/91 of 16 December 1991,

    Recalling its resolution 54/24 of 10 November 1999 and previous resolutions on ageing and the International Year of Older Persons,

    Acknowledging the initiatives undertaken and the momentum generated, at all levels, towards addressing the challenge of ageing and the concerns and contributions of ageing and older persons by the celebration of the International Year of Older Persons, and convinced of the necessity of ensuring an action-oriented follow-up to the International Year of Older Persons with a view to sustaining that momentum,


    Recalling resolution 37/2 adopted by the Commission for Social Development at its thirty-seventh session,1 

    Bearing in mind that, under its resolution 54/24, the General Assembly has entrusted the Commission for Social Development with the revision of the International Plan of Action on Ageing and the elaboration of a long-term strategy on ageing,

    Recalling the offer made at the fifty-fourth session of the General Assembly by the Government of Spain to host a second World Assembly on Ageing in 2002,

    1.	Decides to convene the Second World Assembly on Ageing in 2002, on the occasion of the twentieth anniversary of the first World Assembly on Ageing held at Vienna, to be devoted to the overall review of the outcome of the first World Assembly, as well as to the adoption of a revised plan of action and a long-term strategy on ageing, encompassing its periodic reviews, in the context of a society for all ages;

    2.	Stresses that, in fulfilling these objectives, the Second World Assembly should give particular attention, inter alia, to:

    (a)	Action-oriented measures to be taken by societies in a comprehensive response to the current ageing processes, on the basis of the best practices and lessons learned during the International Year of Older Persons, and bearing in mind the social, cultural and economic realities of each society;

    (b)	Linkages between ageing and development, with particular attention to the needs and perspectives of developing countries;

    (c)	Measures to mainstream ageing within the context of current global development agendas;

    (d)	Appropriate forms of public and private partnership, including with non-governmental organizations, at all levels, for building societies for all ages;

    (e)	Measures to strengthen the solidarity between generations, keeping in mind the needs of both older and younger generations;

    3.	Accepts the offer of the Government of Spain to host the Second World Assembly on Ageing, and decides that the Second World Assembly shall be held in Spain in April 2002;

    4.	Invites all States Members of the United Nations, members of the specialized agencies and observers, as well as other intergovernmental organizations, in accordance with the established practice of the General Assembly, to participate at a high level in the Second World Assembly;

    5.	Invites non-governmental organizations in the field of ageing, as well as research institutions and representatives of the private sector, to participate in and contribute to the Second World Assembly and its preparatory process, including organizing meetings and studies related to the themes of the Second World Assembly;
    
    6.	Decides that the Commission for Social Development shall serve as the preparatory committee for the Second World Assembly on Ageing and, as such, shall be open to the participation of all States Members of the United Nations, members of the specialized agencies and observers, in accordance with the established practice of the General Assembly;

    7.	Requests the Secretary-General to consult Governments, intergovernmental organizations and non-governmental organizations to elicit their views on progress in and obstacles to the implementation of the International Plan of Action on Ageing,1 as well as on priority issues to be addressed in a revised plan of action and a long-term strategy on ageing;

    8.	Invites the Secretary-General to establish a technical committee, funded through voluntary contributions, to assist him in the formulation of proposals to be submitted during the preparatory process to the Commission for Social Development;

    9.	Stresses that the technical committee should ensure, in its composition, an adequate geographical balance among its members, who will serve in a personal capacity, and the integration of multidisciplinary backgrounds, including perspectives from the research institutions, non-governmental organizations in the field of ageing, the private sector and older persons themselves;

    10.	Requests the Secretary-General to encourage the active participation of the United Nations programmes and funds and the specialized agencies and related organizations in the preparations for the Second World Assembly, inter alia, within the framework of the Administrative Committee on Coordination and its subsidiary machinery;

    11.	Invites all relevant organs of the United Nations system, including the regional commissions, funds and programmes, the specialized agencies and the Bretton Woods institutions, to participate in the Second World Assembly and its preparatory process;

    12.	Encourages Member States and other actors to support the preparatory activities by the Secretariat so as to ensure the quality of the outcome of the Second World Assembly and to provide voluntary contributions to the United Nations Trust Fund for Ageing in support of preparatory activities of the Second World Assembly, including the participation of least developed countries;

    13.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session on the implementation of the present resolution under the item devoted to social development.

	97th plenary meeting
	25 May 2000

1 See Report of the World Assembly on Ageing, Vienna, 26 July-6 August 1982 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.82.I.16), chap. VI, sect. A.
1 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1999, Supplement No. 6 (E/1999/26), chap. I, sect. D, para. 4.
[COMMENT1]
<<ODS JOB NO>>N0047214E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/54/262<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------


00 47214	/...


00 47214	/...

A/RES/54/262
Page 2




	A/RES/54/262
	Page 





	/...


	/...





