[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 18 December 2008
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/63/425)]
63/157.	Future operation of the International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling all of its previous resolutions on the situation of the International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women, in particular resolution 60/229 of 23 December 2005,
	Recalling also its resolution 62/208 of 19 December 2007 on the triennial comprehensive policy review of operational activities for development of the United Nations system,
	Acknowledging its resolution 62/277 of 15 September 2008, in particular its gender-specific provisions, and in this context encouraging the ongoing work on gender equality and the empowerment of women,
	Recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 2007/37 of 27 July 2007, in which the Council reaffirmed the specific mandate of the Institute to conduct research and training for gender equality and the empowerment of women as a central focal point for research and training on gender issues within the United Nations system,
	Taking into account Commission on the Status of Women resolution 52/3 of 7 March 2008 entitled "Strengthening of the International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women",1
	Welcoming the contributions of the Institute to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals, the implementation of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women2 and the implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action3 and the outcome document of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly,4
	Taking note with appreciation of the progress report on the Institute by its Director with respect to the implementation of the programme of work for the period from 15 May to 30 September 2008,5 which measures progress through the utilization of indicators of achievement as established in the revised workplan for 2008,6
	Welcoming the approval by the Executive Board of the Institute of the revised workplan for 2008 and its endorsement of the operational budget for 2008,7
	Acknowledging the contributions of the Institute in promoting gender equality and the empowerment of women in the areas of security, international migration, in particular remittances and development, and governance and political participation,
	Recognizing the contribution of the Institute to the ongoing efforts in gender mainstreaming through its research and training outputs involving national gender machineries, academic institutes, regional intergovernmental organizations, non-governmental organizations and the private sector,
	Reaffirming the importance of seeking medium-term sustainable financial resources for the Institute,
	Welcoming the activities undertaken by the Director of the Institute to actively promote a fund-raising strategy for the Institute,
	Expressing its satisfaction with the progress of the Institute in the area of resource mobilization, which has enabled the Institute to fully reimburse the amount committed by the Secretary-General on an exceptional basis from the United Nations regular budget, and recognizing the improved financial standing of the Institute,
	Recognizing that the implementation of the programme of work and strategic plan of the Institute will contribute to a comprehensive discussion on international migration and development from a gender perspective,
	1.	Requests the International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women, in accordance with its mandate, to coordinate further its activities and to develop its programme of work in collaboration with other relevant United Nations entities, such as the United Nations Development Fund for Women, the Office of the Special Adviser on Gender Issues and Advancement of Women, the Division for the Advancement of Women of the Department of Economic and Social Affairs of the Secretariat, the Commission on the Status of Women, the Women's Human Rights and Gender Unit in the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women, and calls upon those entities to continue their collaborative efforts;
	2.	Also requests the Institute, in accordance with its mandate, to collaborate with the United Nations system, national machinery, non-governmental organizations and the private sector in promoting international cooperation to foster the empowerment of women and gender equality, including through the promotion of better access to education for women and girls and the mainstreaming of a gender perspective in all policies and programmes;
	3.	Further requests the Institute, in accordance with its mandate and in close coordination with the United Nations Population Fund, the United Nations Children's Fund and other relevant United Nations programmes and funds, to actively participate in and contribute to discussions on issues related to international migration and development;
	4.	Invites the Institute to continue, in close cooperation with other relevant United Nations bodies, to promote and undertake research and training programmes on gender mainstreaming, in the context of the Millennium Development Goals, the implementation of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women2 and the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action,3 as well as the commitments made at the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly;4
	5.	Requests the Institute, within its mandate, to continue to assist countries in promoting and supporting the political participation and economic and social advancement of women through training programmes;
	6.	Stresses the critical importance of voluntary financial contributions by Member States to the United Nations Trust Fund for the International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women to enable it to carry out its mandate, and invites Member States to make voluntary contributions to the Trust Fund;
	7.	Calls for the diversification of funding resources, and in this regard invites Member States to continue to provide assistance and support to the Institute through voluntary contributions and substantive involvement in its projects and activities;
	8.	Looks forward to the enhanced implementation of the strategic plan of the Institute under the leadership of the new Director, to be appointed shortly by the Secretary-General;
	9.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue to provide, within existing resources, appropriate administrative assistance and support to the Institute, in accordance with the provisions of the statute of the Institute,8 including by enhancing coordination among the Institute and the Department of Economic and Social Affairs and the Department of Management of the Secretariat, in order to ensure that the objectives of the strategic plan, including resource mobilization efforts, are effectively and efficiently carried out;
	10.	Also requests the Secretary-General to include information on the implementation of the present resolution in his report to be submitted to the Economic and Social Council at its substantive session of 2009 through the Commission on the Status of Women at its fifty-third session, and to submit his report to the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session.

70th plenary meeting
18 December 2008
1 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2008, Supplement No. 7 (E/2008/27), chap. I, sect. D.
2 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1249, No. 20378.
3 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.
4 Resolution S-23/3, annex.
5 INSTRAW/EB/2008/R.13.
6 INSTRAW/EB/2007/R.4/Rev.1.
7 See INSTRAW/EB/2007/R.14, sect. III, para. 6, decision II.
8 Economic and Social Council resolution 2003/57, annex.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0848021E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/63/157<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/63/157General AssemblyDistr.: General
4 February 2009Sixty-third session
Agenda item 56

08-48021

A/RES/63/157

A/RES/63/157

2

3

