[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 6 December 2006
[on the report of the First Committee (A/61/394)]
61/68.	Implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its previous resolutions on the subject of chemical weapons, in particular resolution 60/67 of 8 December 2005, adopted without a vote, in which it noted with appreciation the ongoing work to achieve the objective and purpose of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction,1
	Determined to achieve the effective prohibition of the development, production, acquisition, transfer, stockpiling and use of chemical weapons and their destruction,
	Noting with satisfaction that, since the adoption of resolution 60/67, six additional States have ratified the Convention or acceded to it, bringing the total number of States parties to the Convention to one hundred and eighty,
	Reaffirming the importance of the outcome of the First Special Session of the Conference of the States Parties to Review the Operation of the Chemical Weapons Convention, including the Political Declaration,2 in which the States parties reaffirmed their commitment to achieving the objective and purpose of the Convention, and the final report,3 which addressed all aspects of the Convention and made important recommendations on its continued implementation,
	1.	Emphasizes that the universality of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction1 is fundamental to the achievement of its objective and purpose and acknowledges progress made in the implementation of the action plan for the universality of the Convention, and calls upon all States that have not yet done so to become parties to the Convention without delay;
	2.	Underlines the fact that the Convention and its implementation contribute to enhancing international peace and security, and emphasizes that its full, universal and effective implementation will contribute further to that purpose by excluding completely, for the sake of all humankind, the possibility of the use of chemical weapons;
	3.	Stresses that the full and effective implementation of all provisions of the Convention, including those on national implementation (article VII) and assistance and protection against chemical weapons (article X), constitutes an important contribution to the efforts of the United Nations in the global fight against terrorism in all its forms and manifestations;
	4.	Also stresses the importance to the Convention that all possessors of chemical weapons, chemical weapons production facilities or chemical weapons development facilities, including previously declared possessor States, should be among the States parties to the Convention, and welcomes progress to that end;
	5.	Reaffirms the obligation of the States parties to the Convention to destroy chemical weapons and to destroy or convert chemical weapons production facilities within the time limits provided for by the Convention;
	6.	Notes that the effective application of the verification system builds confidence in compliance with the Convention by States parties;
	7.	Stresses the importance of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons in verifying compliance with the provisions of the Convention as well as in promoting the timely and efficient accomplishment of all its objectives;
	8.	Urges all States parties to the Convention to meet in full and on time their obligations under the Convention and to support the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons in its implementation activities;
	9.	Welcomes progress made in the national implementation of the plan of action on the implementation of article VII obligations and commends the States parties and the Technical Secretariat for assisting other States parties, on request, with the implementation of the follow-up to the plan of action regarding article VII obligations, and urges States parties that have not fulfilled their obligations under article VII to do so without further delay, in accordance with their constitutional processes;
	10.	Reaffirms the importance of article XI provisions relating to the economic and technological development of States parties and recalls that the full, effective and non-discriminatory implementation of those provisions contributes to universality, and also reaffirms the undertaking of the States parties to foster international cooperation for peaceful purposes in the field of chemical activities of the States parties and the importance of that cooperation and its contribution to the promotion of the Convention as a whole;
	11.	Notes with appreciation the ongoing work of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons to achieve the objective and purpose of the Convention, to ensure the full implementation of its provisions, including those for international verification of compliance with it, and to provide a forum for consultation and cooperation among States parties, and also notes with appreciation the substantial contribution of the Technical Secretariat and the Director-General to the continued development and success of the Organization;
	12.	Welcomes the decision of the Conference of the States Parties at its tenth session approving the appointment of Mr. Rogelio Pfirter as the Director-General of the Technical Secretariat of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons;4
	13.	Also welcomes the beginning of preparatory work by the States parties on the substance of the Second Special Session of the Conference of the States Parties to Review the Operation of the Chemical Weapons Convention;
	14.	Draws attention to the tenth anniversary of the entry into force of the Convention, on 29 April 2007, which provides a special occasion to publicly renew commitment to the multilateral treaty system and to the objective and purpose of the Convention, and takes note of the unveiling in The Hague on 9 May 2007 of a permanent memorial to all victims of chemical weapons;
	15.	Welcomes the cooperation between the United Nations and the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons within the framework of the Relationship Agreement between the United Nations and the Organization, in accordance with the provisions of the Convention;
	16.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-second session the item entitled "Implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction".

67th plenary meeting
6 December 2006
1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1974, No. 33757.
2 See Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, document RC-1/3.
3 Ibid., document RC-1/5.
4 Ibid., document C-10/DEC.7.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0649851E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/61/68<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

1
    

1

United NationsA/RES/61/68General AssemblyDistr.: General
3 January 2007Sixty-first session
Agenda item 90 (p)

06-49851

A/RES/61/68

A/RES/61/68

2

3

