[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly

[on the report of the Third Committee (A/55/595 and Corr.1 and 2)]
55/70.	Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 54/4 of 6 October 1999 and 54/137 of 17 December 1999,
	Bearing in mind that one of the purposes of the United Nations, as stated in Articles 1 and 55 of the Charter, is to promote universal respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction of any kind, including distinction as to sex,
	Affirming that women and men should participate equally in social, economic and political development, should contribute equally to such development and should share equally in improved conditions of life,
	Recalling the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993,1 in which the Conference reaffirmed that the human rights of women and the girl child were an inalienable, integral and indivisible part of universal human rights,
	Acknowledging the need for a comprehensive and integrated approach to the promotion and protection of the human rights of women, which includes the integration of the human rights of women into the mainstream of United Nations activities system-wide,
	Welcoming the political declaration2 and the outcome document3 of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly, entitled "Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the twenty-first century", in particular paragraph 68 (c) and (d) concerning the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the Optional Protocol thereto,
	Recalling that in the United Nations Millennium Declaration4 heads of State and Government resolved to implement the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,5
	Welcoming the progress made in the implementation of the Convention, but concerned about the remaining challenges,
	Welcoming also the growing number of States parties to the Convention, which now stands at one hundred and sixty-six,
	Welcoming further the adoption and opening for signature, ratification and accession of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,6 and the subsequent entry into force of the Optional Protocol, thereby fulfilling a goal of the Beijing Platform for Action,7
	Bearing in mind the recommendation of the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women that national reports should include information on the implementation of the Beijing Platform for Action, in accordance with paragraph 323 of the Platform,
	Having considered the report of the Committee on its twenty-second and twenty-third sessions,8
	Expressing concern at the great number of reports that are overdue and that continue to be overdue, in particular initial reports, which constitutes an obstacle to the full implementation of the Convention,
	1.	Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General9 on the status of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women;5
	2.	Expresses disappointment that universal ratification of the Convention has not been achieved by the year 2000, and urges all States that have not yet ratified or acceded to the Convention to do so;
	3.	Emphasizes the importance of full compliance by States parties with their obligations under the Convention;
	4.	Welcomes the fact that, as at 22 September 2000, ten States had become parties to the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,6 thereby allowing it to enter into force on 22 December 2000;
	5.	Urges States parties to consider signing and ratifying the Optional Protocol;
	6.	Notes that some States parties have modified their reservations, expresses satisfaction that some reservations have been withdrawn, and urges States parties to limit the extent of any reservations they lodge to the Convention, to formulate any such reservations as precisely and as narrowly as possible, to ensure that no reservations are incompatible with the object and purpose of the Convention or otherwise incompatible with international treaty law, to review their reservations regularly with a view to withdrawing them and to withdraw reservations that are contrary to the object and purpose of the Convention or that are otherwise incompatible with international treaty law;
	7.	Urges States parties to the Convention to make every possible effort to submit their reports on the implementation of the Convention in accordance with article 18 thereof and with the guidelines provided by the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women and to cooperate fully with the Committee in the presentation of their reports;
	8.	Encourages the Secretariat to extend further technical assistance to States parties, upon their request, in the preparation of reports, in particular initial reports, and invites Governments to contribute to these efforts;
	9.	Commends the Committee on its contributions to the effective implementation of the Convention;
	10.	Urges States parties to the Convention to take appropriate measures so that acceptance of the amendment to article 20, paragraph 1, of the Convention by a two-thirds majority of States parties can be reached as soon as possible in order for the amendment to enter into force;
	11.	Expresses its appreciation for the additional meeting time that allows the Committee to hold two sessions annually, each session of three weeks' duration and each preceded by a pre-session working group of the Committee;
	12.	Requests the Secretary-General, in accordance with resolution 54/4, to provide the resources, including staff and facilities, necessary for the effective functioning of the Committee within its full mandate, in particular taking into account the entry into force of the Optional Protocol;
	13.	Urges Governments, agencies and organizations of the United Nations system and intergovernmental as well as non-governmental organizations to disseminate the Convention and the Optional Protocol thereto;
	14.	Encourages all relevant entities of the United Nations system, within their mandates, as well as Governments and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, as appropriate, to continue to assist States parties, upon their request, in implementing the Convention, and in this regard encourages States parties to pay attention to the concluding comments as well as the general recommendations of the Committee;
	15.	Encourages all relevant parts of the United Nations system to continue to build women's knowledge and understanding of and capacity to utilize human rights instruments, in particular the Convention and the Optional Protocol thereto;
	16.	Welcomes the submission of reports by the specialized agencies at the invitation of the Committee on the implementation of the Convention in areas falling within the scope of their activities and the contribution of non-governmental organizations to the work of the Committee, and encourages the agencies to continue to submit reports;
	17.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session a report on the status of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the implementation of the present resolution.

81st plenary meeting
4 December 2000
1 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
2 Resolution S-23/2, annex.
3 Resolution S-23/3, annex.
4 See resolution 55/2.
5 Resolution 34/180, annex.
6 Resolution 54/4, annex.
7 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
8 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-fifth Session, Supplement No. 38 (A/55/38), parts one and two.
9 A/55/308.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0056359E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/55/70<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

A/RES/55/70


A/RES/55/70


4
    

3
    

United NationsA/RES/55/70General AssemblyDistr.: General
8 February 2001Fifty-fifth session
Agenda item 107

00 56359

