[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 26 November 2008
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/63/414/Add.4)]
63/32.	Protection of global climate for present and future generations


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 43/53 of 6 December 1988, 54/222 of 22 December 1999, 61/201 of 20 December 2006 and 62/86 of 10 December 2007 and other resolutions and decisions relating to the protection of the global climate for present and future generations of mankind,
	Recalling also the provisions of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change,1 including the acknowledgement that the global nature of climate change calls for the widest possible cooperation by all countries and their participation in an effective and appropriate international response, in accordance with their common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities and their social and economic conditions,
	Recalling further the United Nations Millennium Declaration,2 in which Heads of State and Government resolved to make every effort to ensure the entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol and to embark on the required reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases,3
	Recalling the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development,4 the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation"),5 the outcome of the thirteenth session of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention and the third session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, held in Bali, Indonesia, from 3 to 15 December 2007,6 and the outcomes of all previous sessions,
	Reaffirming the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,7 the Mauritius Declaration8 and the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,9
	Recalling the 2005 World Summit Outcome,10
	Remaining deeply concerned that all countries, in particular developing countries, including the least developed countries and small island developing States, face increased risks from the negative effects of climate change, and stressing the need to address adaptation needs relating to such effects,
	Noting that, to date, there are one hundred and ninety-two parties to the Convention, including one hundred and ninety-one States and one regional economic integration organization,
	Noting also that, currently, the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change11 has attracted one hundred and eighty-three ratifications, accessions, acceptances or approvals, including by thirty-nine parties included in annex I to the Convention,
	Noting further the amendment to annex B to the Kyoto Protocol,12
	Noting the work of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the need to build and enhance scientific and technological capabilities, inter alia, through continuing support to the Panel for the exchange of scientific data and information, especially in developing countries,
	Noting also the significance of the scientific findings of the fourth assessment report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, providing an integrated scientific, technical and socio-economic perspective on relevant issues and contributing positively to the discussions under the Convention and the understanding of the phenomenon of climate change, including its impacts and risks,
	Reaffirming that economic and social development and poverty eradication are global priorities,
	Recognizing that deep cuts in global emissions will be required to achieve the ultimate objective of the Convention,
	Reaffirming its commitment to the ultimate objective of the Convention, namely, to stabilize greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere at a level that prevents dangerous anthropogenic interference with the climate system,
	Noting with appreciation the efforts of the Secretary-General in raising awareness of the need to respond to the global challenge of climate change,
	Taking note of the Beijing High-level Conference on Climate Change: Technology Development and Technology Transfer, held in Beijing on 7 and 8 November 2008, and the third World Climate Conference on the theme "Climate prediction and information for decision-making", to be held in Geneva from 31 August to 4 September 2009,
	Acknowledging women as key actors in the efforts towards sustainable development, and recognizing that a gender perspective can contribute to efforts to address climate change,
	Taking note of the note by the Secretary-General13 transmitting the report of the Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change,14
	1.	Stresses the seriousness of climate change, and calls upon States to work cooperatively towards achieving the ultimate objective of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change1 through the urgent implementation of its provisions;
	2.	Urges parties to the Convention, and invites parties to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change,11 to continue to make use of the information contained in the fourth assessment report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change in their work;
	3.	Notes that States that have ratified the Kyoto Protocol welcome the entry into force of the Protocol on 16 February 2005 and strongly urge States that have not yet done so to ratify it in a timely manner;
	4.	Takes note of the outcome of the thirteenth session of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention and the third session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, hosted by the Government of Indonesia from 3 to 15 December 2007;6
	5.	Welcomes the decisions adopted during the thirteenth session of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention, including the Bali Action Plan,15 by which the Conference of the Parties decided to launch a comprehensive process aimed at enabling the full, effective and sustained implementation of the Convention through long-term cooperative action, now, up to and beyond 2012, in order to reach an agreed outcome and adopt a decision at the fifteenth session of the Conference of the Parties, and takes note of the work under way in the open-ended ad hoc working group of parties to the Kyoto Protocol established under decision 1/CMP.1;16
	6.	Notes that States that have ratified the Kyoto Protocol welcome the launch of the Adaptation Fund during the third session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol,17 and notes also that developing-country parties to the Kyoto Protocol that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change are eligible for funding from the Adaptation Fund to assist them in meeting the costs of adaptation and look forward to its early operationalization;
	7.	Takes note with appreciation of the offer of the Government of Poland to host the fourteenth session of the Conference of the Parties and the fourth session of the Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, to be held in Poznan, from 1 to 12 December 2008, and looks forward to a successful outcome, including advancement towards an agreed outcome in 2009;	
	8.	Also takes note with appreciation, in this regard, of the offer of the Government of Denmark to host the fifteenth session of the Conference of the Parties and the fifth session of the Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, to be held in Copenhagen from 30 November to 11 December 2009; 
	9.	Recognizes that climate change poses serious risks and challenges to all countries, particularly to developing countries, especially the least developed countries, landlocked developing countries, small island developing States and countries in Africa, including those that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change, and calls upon States to take urgent global action to address climate change in accordance with the principles identified in the Convention, including the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities, and, in this regard, urges all countries to fully implement their commitments under the Convention, to take effective and concrete actions and measures at all levels, and to enhance international cooperation in the framework of the Convention;
	10.	Reaffirms that efforts to address climate change in a manner that enhances the sustainable development and sustained economic growth of the developing countries and the eradication of poverty should be carried out through promoting the integration of the three components of sustainable development, namely, economic development, social development and environmental protection, as interdependent and mutually reinforcing pillars, in an integrated, coordinated and balanced manner; 
	11.	Recognizes the need to provide financial and technical resources, as well as capacity-building and access to and transfer of technology, to assist those developing countries adversely affected by climate change; 
	12.	Calls upon the international community to fulfil the commitments made during the fourth replenishment of the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund;
	13.	Notes the ongoing work of the liaison group of the secretariats and offices of the relevant subsidiary bodies of the Framework Convention, the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa,18 and the Convention on Biological Diversity,19 and encourages cooperation to promote complementarities among the three secretariats while respecting their independent legal status;
	14.	Invites the conferences of the parties to the multilateral environmental conventions, when setting the dates of their meetings, to take into consideration the schedule of meetings of the General Assembly and the Commission on Sustainable Development so as to ensure the adequate representation of developing countries at those meetings;
	15.	Invites the secretariat of the Framework Convention to report, through the Secretary-General, to the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session on the work of the Conference of the Parties;
	16.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-fourth session the sub-item entitled "Protection of global climate for present and future generations".

60th plenary meeting
26 November 2008
* Reissued for technical reasons.
1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1771, No. 30822.
2 See resolution 55/2.
3 Ibid., para. 23.
4 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 
26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
5 Ibid., resolution 2, annex.
6 FCCC/CP/2007/6/Add.1 and 2 and FCCC/KP/CMP/2007/9/Add.1 and 2.
7 Report of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Bridgetown, Barbados, 25 April-6 May 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.94.I.18 and corrigenda), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
8 Report of the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Port Louis, Mauritius, 10-14 January 2005 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.05.II.A.4 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
9 Ibid., annex II.
10 See resolution 60/1.
11 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2303, No. 30822.
12 FCCC/KP/CMP/2006/10/Add.1, decision 10/CMP.2.
13 A/63/294.
14 Ibid., sect. I.
15 See FCCC/CP/2007/6/Add.1, decision 1/CP.13.
16 Entitled "Consideration of commitments for subsequent periods for Parties included in Annex I to the Convention under article 3, paragraph 9, of the Kyoto Protocol", as contained in document FCCC/KP/CMP/2005/8/Add.1. 
17 See FCCC/KP/CMP/2007/9/Add.1, decision 1/CMP.3.
18 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1954, No. 33480.
19 Ibid., vol. 1760, No. 30619.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0847271E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/63/32<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

1
    

1

United NationsA/RES/63/32*General AssemblyDistr.: General
3 April 2009Sixty-third session
Agenda item 49 (d)

08-47271*

A/RES/63/32

A/RES/63/32

2

5

