<<ODS JOB NO>>N9676303E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/50/136<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>

UNITED						A
NATIONS



			General Assembly



									Distr.
									GENERAL

									A/RES/50/136
									30 January 1996






Fiftieth session
Agenda item 103


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/50/626)]


50/136.Third Decade to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination

	The General Assembly,

	Reaffirming its objectives set forth in the Charter of the United Nations to achieve international cooperation in solving problems of an economic, social, cultural or humanitarian character and in promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion,

	Reaffirming also its firm determination and its commitment to eradicate totally and unconditionally racism, in all its forms, and racial discrimination,

	Recalling the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 1/ the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination 2/ and the Convention against Discrimination in Education adopted by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization on 14 December 1960, 3/

	Recalling also the outcome of the two World Conferences to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination, held at Geneva in 1978 and 1983,

	Recalling with satisfaction the outcome of the World Conference on Human Rights, held at Vienna from 14 to 25 June 1993, and, in particular, the attention given in the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action 4/ to the elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and other forms of intolerance,


	Stressing the importance of the activities of the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance,

	Recalling its resolution 49/146 of 23 December 1994, the annex to which contains the revised Programme of Action for the Third Decade to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination (1993-2003),

	Noting with grave concern that, despite the efforts of the international community, the principal objectives of the two Decades for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination have not been attained and that millions of human beings continue to this day to be the victims of varied forms of racism and racial discrimination,

	Deeply concerned about the current trend of the evolution of racism into discriminatory practices based on culture, nationality, religion or language,

	Recalling in particular its resolution 48/91 of 20 December 1993, by which it proclaimed the Third Decade to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination,

	Having considered the reports submitted by the Secretary-General 5/ within the framework of the implementation of the Programme of Action for the Third Decade,

	Firmly convinced of the need to take more effective and sustained measures at the national and international levels for the elimination of all forms of racism and racial discrimination,

	Recognizing the importance of strengthening national legislation and institutions for the promotion of racial harmony,

	Deeply concerned about the fact that the phenomenon of racism and racial discrimination against migrant workers continues to increase despite efforts undertaken by the international community to improve the protection of the human rights of migrant workers and members of their families,

	Recalling the adoption at its forty-fifth session of the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families, 6/

	Acknowledging that indigenous people are at times victims of particular forms of racism and racial discrimination,

	1.	Declares once again that all forms of racism and racial discrimination, whether in their institutionalized form or resulting from official doctrines of racial superiority or exclusivity, such as ethnic cleansing, are among the most serious violations of human rights in the contemporary world and must be combated by all available means;

	2.	Recalls with satisfaction the proclamation of the Third Decade to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination, which began in 1993, and requests the Secretary-General to make a further review of the Programme of Action with a view to making it more effective and action-oriented;

	3.	Calls upon Governments to cooperate more closely with the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance to enable him to fulfil his mandate;

	4.	Urges all Governments to take all necessary measures to combat new forms of racism, in particular by adapting constantly the means provided to combat them, especially in the legislative, administrative, educational and information fields;

	5.	Decides that the international community in general and the United Nations in particular should give the highest priority to programmes for combating racism and racial discrimination and should intensify their efforts, during the Third Decade, to provide assistance and relief to the victims of racism and all forms of racial discrimination;

	6.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue to accord special attention to the situation of migrant workers and members of their families and to include regularly in his reports all information on such workers;

	7.	Calls upon all Member States to consider signing and ratifying or acceding to the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families as a matter of priority;

	8.	Commends all States which have ratified or acceded to the international instruments to combat racism and racial discrimination;

	9.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue the study on the effects of racial discrimination on the children of minorities, in particular those of migrant workers, in the fields of education, training and employment, and to submit, inter alia, specific recommendations for the implementation of measures to combat the effects of that discrimination;

	10.	Urges the Secretary-General, United Nations bodies, the specialized agencies, all Governments, intergovernmental organizations and relevant non-governmental organizations, in implementing the Programme of Action for the Third Decade, to pay particular attention to the situation of indigenous people;

	11.	Requests States to consider the relevant decisions of the Economic and Social Council on the integrated follow-up to previous world conferences and the need to make optimum use of all available mechanisms in the struggle against racism;

	12.	Requests the Secretary-General to consult Member States and  intergovernmental, as well as non-governmental, organizations on the possibility of holding a world conference to combat racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and other related contemporary forms of intolerance;

	13.	Renews its invitation to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization to expedite the preparation of teaching materials and teaching aids to promote teaching, training and educational activities on human rights and against racism and racial discrimination, with particular emphasis on activities at the primary and secondary levels of education;


	14.	Considers that all the parts of the Programme of Action for the Third Decade should be given equal attention in order to attain the objectives of the Decade;

	15.	Regrets that some of the activities scheduled for the Second Decade to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination have not been implemented for lack of adequate resources;

	16.	Considers that voluntary contributions to the Trust Fund for the Programme for the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination are indispensable for the implementation of the Programme; 

	17.	Requests the Secretary-General to ensure that the necessary financial resources are provided for the implementation of the activities of the Third Decade during the biennium 1996-1997;

	18.	Also requests the Secretary-General to accord the highest priority to the activities of the Programme of Action for the Third Decade;

	19.	Further requests the Secretary-General to submit each year to the Economic and Social Council a detailed report on all activities of United Nations bodies and the specialized agencies, containing an analysis of information received on such activities to combat racism and racial discrimination;

	20.	Invites the Secretary-General to submit proposals to the General Assembly with a view to supplementing, if necessary, the Programme of Action for the Third Decade;

	21.	Invites all Governments, United Nations bodies, the specialized agencies and other intergovernmental organizations, as well as interested non-governmental organizations in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council, to participate fully in the Third Decade;

	22.	Notes that unless a supplementary financial effort is made very few of the activities planned for the period 1994-1997 will be carried out; 

	23.	Strongly appeals to all Governments, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations and individuals in a position to do so to contribute generously to the Trust Fund for the Programme for the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination, and to this end requests the Secretary-General to continue to undertake appropriate contacts and initiatives to encourage contributions;

	24.	Decides to keep the item entitled "Elimination of racism and racial discrimination" on its agenda and to consider it as a matter of the highest priority at its fifty-first session.

	97th plenary meeting
	21 December 1995


     1/	Resolution 217 A (III).
     2/	Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.
     3/	United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 429, No. 6193.
     4/	A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
     5/	E/1995/111 and Add.1 and A/50/493.
     6/	Resolution 45/158, annex.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------



 

 


96-76303	/...


96-76303	/...

A/RES/50/136
Page 1



	A/RES/50/136
	Page 1




96-76303	/...


96-76303	/...

A/RES/50/136
Page 2



	A/RES/50/136
	Page 2




	/...


	/...

A/RES/50/136
Page 4



	A/RES/50/136
	Page 4







