UNITED						A
NATIONS



			General Assembly



									Distr.
									GENERAL

									A/RES/48/264
									17 August 1994






Forty-eighth session
Agenda item 53


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[without reference to a Main Committee (A/48/L.61)]


48/264.Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly


	The General Assembly,

	Recalling its resolutions 2837 (XXVI) of 17 December 1971, 33/138 of 19 December 1978, 39/88 of 13 December 1984, 45/45 of 28 November 1990, 46/77 of 12 December 1991, 46/140 of 17 December 1991, 46/220 of 20 December 1991 and 47/233 of 17 August 1993,

	Reiterating the importance of the objectives and principles relevant to the revitalization of the work of the General Assembly as set out in resolution 47/233,

	Desiring to enhance its capacity to exercise the functions and powers assigned to it under the Charter of the United Nations so that it can play a more effective role within the Organization,

	Recognizing the usefulness of improving its working methods to enable it to perform its functions more effectively, efficiently and in a comprehensive manner,

	1.	Stresses the importance of enhanced cooperation and an effective relationship between the General Assembly and other principal organs, particularly the Security Council, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Charter of the United Nations;

	2.	Decides, in accordance with and subject to the relevant provisions of the Charter, to continue to use the existing machinery and, when necessary, to consider the creation of new bodies to facilitate the discussion of any question or any matter within the scope of the Charter and, as appropriate, the making of recommendations on it to the Members of the United Nations or to the Security Council or to both;

	3.	Welcomes the ongoing efforts of the Security Council to improve its working methods, and in that context encourages the Council, in the submission of reports to the Assembly, to provide in a timely manner a clear and informative account of its work, including its resolutions and other decisions, inclusive of measures taken under Chapter VII of the Charter;

	4.	Invites the President of the General Assembly, following consultations, to propose appropriate ways and means to facilitate an in-depth discussion by the Assembly of matters contained in the reports submitted to it by the Security Council;

	5.	Encourages Member States to exercise restraint in making proposals requesting new reports of the Secretary-General, bearing in mind the desirability of reducing the number of such reports;

	6.	Emphasizes that reports requested of the Secretary-General should be made available in all official languages in a timely manner in accordance with the rules of procedure of the General Assembly and the annexes thereto with a view to enabling delegations to consider the substance of such reports more thoroughly in advance of meetings;

	7.	Commends the valuable work undertaken by the Main Committees to review their respective agendas, and encourages the Committees to continue this work, taking into account the present resolution;

	8.	Reaffirms the right of Member States to propose, in accordance with the rules of procedure, items for inclusion in the agenda of the Assembly;

	9.	Adopts the Guidelines on the Rationalization of the Agenda of the General Assembly set forth in annex I to the present resolution, which shall be embodied as an annex to the rules of procedure of the Assembly;

	10.	Decides to replace paragraph 4 of the annex to its resolution 33/138 with the text contained in annex II to the present resolution concerning the pattern of election of the six Chairmen of the Main Committees;

	11.	Decides also that the arrangement concerning the pattern of election of the six Chairmen of the Main Committees shall take effect at its forty-ninth session;

	12.	Decides further to review the arrangement concerning the pattern of election of the six Chairmen of the Main Committees at its fifty-third session;

	13.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to the Assembly at its fifty-second session on the progress achieved in the implementation of the present resolution after having ascertained the views and experience of the Presidents of the Assembly at its forty-ninth, fiftieth and fifty-first sessions;




	14.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-second session the item entitled "Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly".

	102nd plenary meeting
	29 July 1994


	ANNEX I

	Guidelines on the Rationalization of the Agenda of the
	General Assembly


1.	The plenary meetings of the General Assembly should constitute a forum for high-level policy statements, as well as for the consideration, inter alia, of agenda items of special political importance and/or urgency.

2.	Agenda items which are of a nature that relates to more than one Main Committee or which do not come within the purview of any Main Committee should be considered by the General Assembly in plenary meeting, taking into account the recommendations of the General Committee.

3.	Substantive items initially allocated directly to a plenary meeting of the General Assembly could be reviewed for allocation to a Main Committee in accordance with the rules of procedure of the Assembly, in particular with Assembly decision 34/401, which is reproduced in annex VI to the rules of procedure.

4.	There shall be periodic reviews of the agenda, taking into account the views of concerned Member States, in order to ascertain whether it is possible to delete any item on which no resolution or decision has been adopted for a period of time.

5.	The Main Committees should be encouraged to continue with the review of their respective agendas, taking into account, inter alia, the following:

	(a)	Agenda items concerning issues of closely related substance could be merged within a single agenda title or be incorporated as sub-items where this is possible without loss of focus on the items/sub-items concerned;

	(b)	Items that cover related matters or issues could be considered in agreed clusters;

	(c)	Biennialization and triennialization of items on the agenda of the Main Committees could be considered in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly;

	(d)	The existing broad division of work among the Main Committees should be maintained.






	ANNEX II

	Text to replace paragraph 4 of
	the annex to resolution 33/138


	4.	The six Chairmen of the Main Committees shall be elected according to the following pattern:

	(a)	One representative from an African State;

	(b)	One representative from an Asian State;

	(c)	One representative from an Eastern European State;

	(d)	One representative from a Latin American or Caribbean State;

	(e)	One representative from a Western European or other State;

	(f)	The sixth chairmanship shall rotate over a period of twenty sessions according to the following pattern:

		(i)One representative from an African State;

		(ii)One representative from an Asian State;

		(iii)One representative from a Latin American or Caribbean State;

		(iv)One representative from an African State;

		(v)One representative from an Asian State;

		(vi)One representative from an African State;

		(vii)One representative from a Latin American or Caribbean State;

		(viii)One representative from an Asian State;

		(ix)One representative from an African State;

		(x)One representative from an Asian State;

		(xi)One representative from a Latin American or Caribbean State;

		(xii)One representative from an African State;

		(xiii)One representative from an Asian State;

		(xiv)One representative from an African State;

		(xv)One representative from a Latin American or Caribbean State;

 		(xvi)	One representative from an Asian State;

		(xvii)	One representative from an African State;





		(xviii)	One representative from an Asian State;

		(xix)	One representative from a Latin American or Caribbean State;

		(xx)One representative from an African State.




1

	/...


	/...

A/RES/48/264
Page 1



	A/RES/48/264
	Page 1




	/...


	/...

A/RES/48/264
Page 5



	A/RES/48/264
	Page 5




	/...


	/...

	A/RES/48/264
	Page 5



