[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 2 December 2011
[on the report of the First Committee (A/66/416)]
66/62.	Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 65/89 of 8 December 2010,
	Recalling with satisfaction the adoption and the entry into force of the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects1 and its amended article 1,2 the Protocol on Non-Detectable Fragments (Protocol I),1 the Protocol on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Mines, Booby Traps and Other Devices (Protocol II)1 and its amended version,3 the Protocol on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Incendiary Weapons (Protocol III),1 the Protocol on Blinding Laser Weapons (Protocol IV)4 and the Protocol on Explosive Remnants of War (Protocol V),5
	Welcoming the results of the Third Review Conference of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects, held in Geneva from 7 to 17 November 2006,
	Welcoming also the results of the 2010 Meeting of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention, held in Geneva on 25 and 26 November 2010,
	Welcoming further the results of the Twelfth Annual Conference of the High Contracting Parties to Amended Protocol II, held in Geneva on 24 November 2010,
	Welcoming the results of the Fourth Conference of the High Contracting Parties to Protocol V, held in Geneva on 22 and 23 November 2010,
	Recalling the role played by the International Committee of the Red Cross in the elaboration of the Convention and the Protocols thereto, and welcoming the particular efforts of various international, non-governmental and other organizations in raising awareness of the humanitarian consequences of explosive remnants of war,
	1.	Calls upon all States that have not yet done so to take all measures to become parties, as soon as possible, to the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects1 and the Protocols thereto, as amended, with a view to achieving the widest possible adherence to these instruments at an early date and so as to ultimately achieve their universality;
	2.	Calls upon all States parties to the Convention that have not yet done so to express their consent to be bound by the Protocols to the Convention and the amendment extending the scope of the Convention and the Protocols thereto to include armed conflicts of a non-international character;
	3.	Emphasizes the importance of the universalization of the Protocol on Explosive Remnants of War (Protocol V);5
	4.	Welcomes the additional ratifications and acceptances of or accessions to the Convention, as well as the consents to be bound by the Protocols thereto;
	5.	Also welcomes the adoption by the Third Review Conference of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention of a plan of action to promote universality of the Convention and the Protocols thereto,6 and expresses appreciation for the continued efforts of the Secretary-General, as depositary of the Convention and the Protocols thereto, the Chair of the Meeting of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention, the President of the Fourth Conference of the High Contracting Parties to Protocol V and the President of the Twelfth Annual Conference of the High Contracting Parties to Amended Protocol II, on behalf of the High Contracting Parties, to achieve the goal of universality;
	6.	Recalls the decision of the Third Review Conference of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention to establish a sponsorship programme within the framework of the Convention,7 and, with recognition of the value and importance of the programme, encourages States to contribute to the Sponsorship Programme;
	7.	Welcomes the decision of the 2010 Meeting of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention to convene the Fourth Review Conference of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention in Geneva from 14 to 25 November 2011;
	8.	Acknowledges the work of the Implementation Support Unit within the Geneva Branch of the Office for Disarmament Affairs of the Secretariat, which was established following a decision of the 2009 Meeting of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention;
	9.	Welcomes the commitment by States parties to continue to address the humanitarian problems caused by certain specific types of munitions in all their aspects, including cluster munitions, with a view to minimizing the humanitarian impact of these munitions;
	10.	Also welcomes the preparatory work for the Fourth Review Conference conducted by the Group of Governmental Experts of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention, acting under the overall responsibility of the President-designate, and notes that the issue of urgently addressing the humanitarian impact of cluster munitions, while striking a balance between military and humanitarian considerations, will be further addressed at the Fourth Review Conference in November 2011;
	11.	Further welcomes the commitment of States parties to the Protocol on Explosive Remnants of War (Protocol V) to the effective and efficient implementation of the Protocol and the implementation of the decisions of the First and Second Conferences of the High Contracting Parties to the Protocol establishing a comprehensive framework for the exchange of information and cooperation,8 and also welcomes the holding of the Meeting of Experts of the High Contracting Parties to the Protocol, in Geneva from 6 to 8 April 2011, as a mechanism for consultation and cooperation among the States parties;
	12.	Notes the decision of the Tenth Annual Conference of the High Contracting Parties to Amended Protocol II to establish an informal open-ended group of experts,9 and welcomes the holding of the third session of the Group of Experts of the High Contracting Parties to Amended Protocol II, in Geneva on 4 and 5 April 2011, to exchange national practices and experiences and to assess the implementation of the Protocol;
	13.	Also notes that, in conformity with article 8 of the Convention, conferences may be convened to examine amendments to the Convention or to any of the Protocols thereto, to examine additional protocols concerning other categories of conventional weapons not covered by existing Protocols or to review the scope and application of the Convention and the Protocols thereto and to examine any proposed amendments or additional protocols;
	14.	Requests the Secretary-General to render the necessary assistance and to provide such services, including summary records, as may be required for the Fourth Review Conference of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention, to be held from 14 to 25 November 2011, and other annual conferences and expert meetings of the High Contracting Parties to Amended Protocol II and Protocol V, as well as for any continuation of the work after the meetings;
	15.	Also requests the Secretary-General, in his capacity as depositary of the Convention and the Protocols thereto, to continue to inform the General Assembly periodically, by electronic means, of ratifications and acceptances of and accessions to the Convention, its amended article 12 and the Protocols thereto;
	16.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-seventh session the item entitled "Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects".

71st plenary meeting
2 December 2011
1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1342, No. 22495.
2 Ibid., vol. 2260, No. 22495.
3 Ibid., vol. 2048, No. 22495.
4 Ibid., vol. 2024, No. 22495.
5 Ibid., vol. 2399, No. 22495.
6 See CCW/CONF.III/11 (Part II), annex III.
7 Ibid., annex IV.
8 See CCW/P.V/CONF/2007/1 and Corr.1 and 2 and CCW/P.V/CONF/2008/12.
9 See CCW/AP.II/CONF.10/2, para. 23.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1146254E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/66/62<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/66/62General AssemblyDistr.: General
13 December 2011Sixty-sixth session
Agenda item 102

11-46254
*1046254*

A/RES/66/62

A/RES/66/62

2

3

