UNITED						A
NATIONS




 			General Assembly



									Distr.
									GENERAL

									A/RES/49/100
                                                      24 February 1995





Forty-ninth session
Agenda item 88 (a)


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Second Committee (A/49/728/Add.1)]


49/100.Specific measures in favour of island developing countries

	The General Assembly,

	Recalling its resolutions 45/202 of 21 December 1990 and 47/186 of 22 December 1992 and other relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development,

	Recognizing that, in addition to the general problems facing developing countries, many island developing countries experience specific trade- and financing-related handicaps and that many of these factors subsist concurrently in island developing countries, resulting in economic and social vulnerability and dependence, particularly in those countries that are small and/or geographically dispersed,

	Mindful of the fact that in the 1990s, island developing countries, particularly the small island developing countries that have extremely open and volatile economies, are facing an international economic environment that may adversely affect their trading opportunities,

	Stressing the need for support measures to enable the island developing countries to obtain maximum benefit from the Final Act Embodying the Results of the Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations, 1/

	Underscoring the importance of international cooperation to support policies and measures of island developing countries in the area of trade so as to complement the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, 2/ adopted at the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,

	Noting that many island developing countries are least developed countries,

	1.	Expresses its appreciation to the States, organizations and bodies, within and outside the United Nations system, that have responded to the special needs of island developing countries;

	2.	Welcomes the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States 2/ and the Declaration of Barbados, 3/ adopted at the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, held at Bridgetown, from 25 April to 6 May 1994 (hereinafter referred to as the Barbados Conference);

	3.	Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General on a development strategy for island developing countries; 4/

	4.	Welcomes the efforts made by island developing countries at national and regional levels to enhance their international competitiveness and to expand their trading opportunities;

	5.	Calls upon the international community to implement all the commitments achieved and the recommendations made at the Barbados Conference and to take the necessary action to give effective follow-up to the Programme of Action, and, in relation to trade and development issues with respect to island developing countries, reiterates the appeals made in paragraph 6 of resolution 47/186;

	6.	Notes the valuable role of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development in support of island developing countries, as recalled in resolution 47/186, and welcomes the provision made in paragraph 13 of its  resolution 49/122 of 19 December 1994 for strengthening the capacity of the  Conference to carry out, in accordance with its mandate, research and analysis necessary to complement the work of the Department for Policy Coordination and Sustainable Development of the Secretariat;

	7.	Invites the Commission on Sustainable Development to convene, during its session in 1996, a high-level panel to discuss the challenges faced by island developing countries, particularly in the area of external trade, and to assist the Commission in its review of the implementation of the Programme of Action agreed at the Barbados Conference, and also invites the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development to organize that panel in cooperation with the Department for Policy Coordination and Sustainable Development; 


	8.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue to monitor and review in a coordinated manner, inter alia, within the Inter-Agency Committee on Sustainable Development and the secretariats of the Commission on Sustainable Development and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the concerns and needs of island developing countries;

	9.	Also requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-first session on the implementation of the present resolution and, in recognition of the complementarity between the follow-up to the Barbados Conference and ongoing island developing country programmes, further requests the Secretary-General to take measures to provide for integrated reporting on, and synergetic consideration of, these issues.

	92nd plenary meeting
	19 December 1994


    1/   See Legal Instruments Embodying the Results of the Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations, done at Marrakesh on 15 April 1994 (GATT secretariat publication, Sales No. GATT/1994-7), vol. 1.
    2/	Report of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Bridgetown, 25 April-6 May 1994 (A/CONF.167/9 and Corr.1 and 2) (United Nations publication, Sales No. 94.I.18 and corrigenda), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
    3/	Ibid., annex I.
    4/	A/49/227 and Add.1 and 2.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------



 

 


95-76879


95-76879


	/...


	/...

A/RES/49/100
Page 1



	A/RES/49/100
	Page 1




	/...


	/...

A/RES/49/100
Page 3



	A/RES/49/100
	Page 3







