<<ODS JOB NO>>N9676993E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/50/214<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>

UNITED						A
NATIONS



			General Assembly





									Distr.
									GENERAL

									A/RES/50/214
									29 February 1996






Fiftieth session
Agenda item 116


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Fifth Committee (A/50/842)]


50/214.Questions relating to the proposed programme budget for the biennium 1996-1997

	I

	The General Assembly,

	Reaffirming its resolution 41/213 of 19 December 1986 and subsequent relevant resolutions,

	Recalling its resolution 45/248 B of 21 December 1990, in which it reaffirmed that the Fifth Committee is the appropriate Main Committee of the General Assembly entrusted with responsibilities for administrative and budgetary matters,

	Recalling also its resolutions 45/253 of 21 December 1990 and 47/214 of 23 December 1992,

	Reaffirming the respective mandates of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions and the Committee for Programme and Coordination in the consideration of the proposed programme budget,

	Stressing that the normal procedures established for the formulation of the programme budget must be maintained and strictly followed,

	Having considered the proposed programme budget for the biennium 1996-1997 1/ and the reports of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions and the Committee for Programme and Coordination thereon,


	1.	Welcomes the timely preparation, and notes the improved format, of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 1996-1997;

	2.	Reiterates its request that the Secretary-General present in future budget documents appropriate regular budget and extrabudgetary expenditure forecasts to the end of the current biennium to permit comparison with the request contained in the proposed programme budget;

	3.	Endorses the conclusions and recommendations of the Committee for Programme and Coordination on the programme narrative of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 1996-1997 contained in the report of the Committee on the work of its thirty-fifth session, 2/ without prejudice to the priorities established by the General Assembly, and subject to the provisions of the present resolution;

	4.	Regrets that the Committee for Programme and Coordination was unable to make recommendations on the programme narratives of some sections during its deliberations at its thirty-fifth session;

	5.	Reiterates that the activities included in the proposed programme budget must be derived from the medium-term plan for the period 1992-1997 3/ and its revisions as adopted by the General Assembly in its resolutions 45/253 and 47/214 and other relevant intergovernmental decisions, and should be aimed at the full implementation of the mandates, policies and priorities as approved by the Assembly;

	6.	Stresses the role of the relevant intergovernmental bodies in the consideration of the narrative of the proposed programme budget as well as the necessity for a timely presentation of their recommendations on the budget;

	7.	Also reiterates the need for the Secretary-General to ensure that resources are strictly utilized for the purposes approved by the General Assembly;

	8.	Notes with concern that the proposed programme budget did not take into account its resolutions 48/218 A and B of 23 December 1993 and 29 July 1994, respectively, regarding the strengthening of the external oversight control mechanisms;

	9.	Regrets that, in the proposed programme budget, the Secretary-General failed to respect completely the priorities set forth in resolutions 45/253 and 47/214;

	10.	Further reiterates that, when formulating the proposed programme budget, the Secretary-General must respect fully the priorities established by the General Assembly;

	11.	Decides to make the following changes to the programme narrative in the final published version of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 1996-1997: 1/

	(a)	Amend, as appropriate, references to "island developing States" to read "small island developing States";

	(b)	In paragraph 71, third sentence, of the Introduction, replace "in Eastern Europe and the countries in transition" by "for countries with economies in transition";

	(c)	In paragraph 1.37, fourth sentence, after "efforts", add "to promote international economic cooperation and economic and social development and";

	(d)	In paragraphs 2.48 and 2.48.1 (a) (iii), delete "the front-line States", and in paragraph 2.104.3 (b), delete ", but not in Africa";

	(e)	In paragraph 7A.41, the last two lines should read: "encouraging integration with national efforts through such approaches as a programme approach, national execution and country strategy notes, at the request of the recipient Governments.";

	(f)	Redraft the beginning of paragraph 8.3 as follows:  "The main objectives of the Department will be the promotion of an integrated approach to economic, social and environmental aspects of development, including the elaboration of perspectives that will provide for sustainable, equitable and participatory development.  The Department will develop and promote a coordinated approach to key policy issues.  To that end, the Department will help Governments, international organizations, non-governmental organizations and others interested in determining...";

	(g)	In paragraph 8.6, penultimate sentence, after "regulation" add "as well as analysis of such issues as the role of markets in fostering growth, the provision of public goods, marginalization and social integration, human resources development, the impact of economic sanctions and the peace-development link";

	(h)	In paragraph 8.41, the last sentence should read:  "Recent developments in the world economy reinforce the need to view the development process as being increasingly integrated through economic, social and political linkages.";

	(i)	In paragraph 8.42, delete the third sentence, reading "In the area of security economics, the focus will be on analysing the linkages between political and economic issues and policies.", and amend the last sentence to read:  "The subprogramme will also focus on reporting to the General Assembly and the Security Council (as appropriate) on the impact of multilateral economic sanctions, coercive economic measures, participation of affected countries in post-conflict reconstruction and rehabilitation of the crisis-stricken areas, in the context of provisions of General Assembly resolutions 50/51 of 11 December 1995 and 50/58 E of 12 December 1995.";

	(j)	The beginning of paragraph 8.66 (a) should read:  "One new P-5 post for research, analysis and policy studies on international migration, in particular the refugee flows and the causes, impact and different consequences of such movements including the human rights aspects and economic consequences of such population movements.";

	(k)	In paragraph 9.8, after "Unit", insert "for countries with economies in transition";

	(l)	In paragraph 9.8 (e), delete "; at the same time, the fellowships and technical assistance recruitment function at Geneva will be discontinued";

	(m)	In paragraph 9.21, third and fourth sentences, after "provided", add "upon the request of Governments";  

	(n)	In paragraph 9.24, second sentence, replace the reference to "sustainable human development" by "sustained economic growth and sustainable development", and delete "as well as, where appropriate, within the context of the peace-to-development continuum";

	(o)	In paragraph 9.29, at the end of the first sentence, after "Agenda 21", add ", in the context of permanent sovereignty over natural resources and of an integral approach to environment and development";

	(p)	In paragraph 10A.4, add the Commission on Science and Technology for Development to the list of subsidiary bodies;

	(q)	In paragraph 13.13, first sentence, after "sophisticated forms", add "such as illicit traffic of children, child prostitution and child pornography";

	(r)	In paragraph 18.28, after the first sentence, add the sentence "All these activities will be implemented upon the request of interested Governments, taking into account their national priorities.";

	(s)	In paragraph 20.15, first sentence, after "are implemented" insert "upon the request of Governments in accordance with their national programmes and priorities";

	(t)	In paragraph 20.22, at the end of the first sentence, add "by General Assembly resolution 47/214 of 23 December 1992 and subsequent relevant resolutions"; 

	(u)	In paragraph 21.2, at the end of the first sentence, add ", in particular General Assembly resolution 48/121 of 20 December 1993, which endorsed the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, and resolution 48/141 of the same date, which created the post of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights.", and delete the rest of paragraph 21.2;

	(v)	Delete paragraphs 21.3 to 21.6, inclusive, and renumber the subsequent paragraphs;

	(w)	In paragraph 24.4, last sentence, after "humanitarian advocate", add "consistent with the leadership role of the Secretary-General and the guiding principles, including those of impartiality, humanity and neutrality, set out in the annex to resolution 46/182"; 

	(x)	At the end of paragraph 24.18.1. (h), delete "and initiate a regime to limit stockpiling, production and trade of land-mines (XB)";

	(y)	In paragraph 25.1, delete the reference to document A/49/6;

	(z)	In paragraph 25.11, replace the last sentence by:  "In that context, the activities of the United Nations information centres and the programmes of the Department of Public Information of the Secretariat, including those in support of major United Nations conferences, are aimed at supporting the main activities of the Organization, emphasizing those related to peace, security and disarmament, economic and social development, human rights and other political affairs, such as the question of Palestine, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 48/44 B of 10 December 1993.  The activities of the centres and the Department, as well as the production of articles in magazines, radio and television broadcasts, and a variety of important publications, have all contributed substantially to promoting that understanding all over the world.";

	(aa) In paragraph 25.12.3 (b) (ii), after the reference to the Agenda for Peace, add ", already approved by the General Assembly in its resolutions 47/120 A and B,";

	(bb) In paragraph 25.91, the first sentence should read: "Information centres play a vital role in collecting, analysing, summarizing and providing Headquarters with analysis, media summaries and clippings on developments related to all United Nations activities, including those related to international peace and security.";

	(cc) In paragraph 26C.58, add an additional subparagraph reading "(f) Providing language training in the six official languages."; and in paragraph 26C.58.5, the first sentence should read:  "Language training is provided in the six official languages in accordance with resolution 2480 B (XXIII) of 21 December 1968, 43/224 D of 21 December 1988 and 50/11 of 2 November 1995."

	(dd) In paragraph 29.3, first sentence, before "peace-keeping", add "development,";

	(ee) Paragraph 29.4 should read:  "The objectives of the programme include ensuring compliance with resolutions of the General Assembly and with regulations, rules and policies of the United Nations; monitoring programme implementation and evaluating the results achieved; reviewing and appraising the use of financial resources of the United Nations in order to guarantee the implementation of programmes and legislative mandates; investigating alleged violations of United Nations regulations, rules and pertinent administrative issuances; and recommending policies and measures for the promotion of economy and efficiency based on these audits, inspections and investigations, in accordance with resolution 48/218 B";

	(ff) In paragraph 29.26 (a), first sentence, add the United Nations Office at Nairobi to the list;

	II

	Emphasizing that programmes and activities mandated by the General Assembly must be respected and implemented fully,

	Also emphasizing the need for mandated programmes and activities to be delivered in the most effective and efficient manner,

	Noting those areas identified in chapter I of the first report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions on the proposed programme budget for the biennium 1996-1997 4/ where the Advisory Committee, without recommending reductions at present, believes economies can be achieved, including, inter alia, the productivity gains that can be realized as the result of technological innovations, review of publications, strict control of expenditures on travel and consultants, appropriate staff ratios and the possibilities for greater accuracy in forecasting costing standards,

	1.	Approves the comments and recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions as expressed in chapter I of its first report on the proposed programme budget for the biennium 1996-1997, subject to the provisions of the present resolution, and requests the Secretary-General to take necessary measures thereon;

	2.	Reaffirms the budgetary process as approved in its resolution 41/213;

	3.	Welcomes the efforts of the Secretary-General to enhance efficiency in the preparation of his proposed programme budget for the biennium 1996-1997;

	4.	Reaffirms that changes in mandated programmes and activities are the prerogative of the General Assembly;

	5.	Notes that the Secretary-General intends to pursue further efficiency gains on an ongoing basis and that gains in the order of magnitude of 100 million United States dollars during the biennium would be a reasonable expectation;

	6.	Decides that savings in the proposed programme budget for the biennium 1996-1997 will not affect the full implementation of mandated programmes and activities;

	7.	Requests the Secretary-General to present, as soon as possible, and no later than 31 March 1996, to the General Assembly, through the Advisory Committee, a report containing proposals of possible savings for its consideration and approval;

	8.	Also requests the Secretary-General to make proposals to the General Assembly as soon as possible, and no later than the fifty-first session, on further measures to improve efficiency, contain administrative costs and achieve savings in the Organization with a view to enhancing programme delivery and the implementation of all programmes and activities mandated by the General Assembly;

	9.	Further requests the Secretary-General, when making such proposals, to take into account areas identified in chapter I of the first report of the Advisory Committee on the proposed programme budget for the biennium 1996-1997;

	10.	Requests the Secretary-General, in making proposals for such savings, to ensure the fair, equitable and non-selective treatment of all budget sections;

	11.	Also requests the Secretary-General, in addition to the biennial budget performance report, to present no later than the end of the fiftieth session and in June 1997 a programme performance report on the impact of approved savings measures on the implementation of mandated programmes and activities;

	12.	Further requests the Secretary-General to ensure that adequate resources are allocated in the 1996-1997 programme budget for activities specifically relating to the least developed countries in accordance with the priority accorded thereto;

	13.	Decides that the vacancy rate in 1996-1997 will be 6.4 per cent for both Professional and General Service posts, subject to review in the context of the above paragraphs;

	III

	1.	Approves, subject to the modifications below, the recommendations and observations of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions contained in chapter II of its first report on the proposed programme budget for the biennium 1996-1997, 4/ and requests the Secretary-General to take the necessary measures concerning them; 

	2.	Decides to consider at its resumed fiftieth session the modalities for the strengthening of the external oversight mechanisms decided upon in its decision 47/454 of 23 December 1992;

Section 1. Overall policy-making, direction and coordination

	3.	Requests the Secretary-General to ensure that the Office of the President of the General Assembly is provided with adequate resources;

	4.	Accepts the level of resources proposed by the Secretary-General for the Advisory Committee;

	5.	Also requests the Secretary-General to keep under review the level of the post of the Executive Secretary of the Board of Auditors, taking into account the increased workload of the Board and General Assembly resolutions 48/218 A and B on the strengthening of the external oversight bodies, and to report thereon in the context of the proposed programme budget for 1998-1999;

Section 2. Political affairs

	6.	Requests the Secretary-General to maintain the Division of Palestinian Rights at its 1994-1995 approved staffing level, to keep the staffing requirements of the Division under review in the light of developments in the Middle East and to report thereon to the General Assembly when necessary;

	7.	Also requests the Secretary-General to keep the resource requirements for the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People under review in the light of developments in the Middle East and to report thereon to the General Assembly when necessary;

	8.	Further requests the Secretary-General to ensure that adequate resources are made available to ensure the continuation, as appropriate, of the functions formerly carried out by the Office of the Coordinator of Assistance for the Reconstruction and Development of Lebanon;

	9.	Requests the Secretary-General to review the grade structure of the Department of Political Affairs as recommended in paragraph II.4 of the first report of the Advisory Committee on the proposed programme budget, as well as the division of responsibilities between the Department of Political Affairs and the Department of Peace-keeping Operations so as to ensure the clear delineation of their respective tasks and to avoid duplication and overlap, as recommended in paragraph II.15 of the report of the Advisory Committee;

	10.	Decides to keep the level of resources proposed for travel of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples under review in the light of actual expenditure patterns and to make proposals thereon as appropriate in the context of the revised estimates for the biennium 1996-1997;

Section 3. Peace-keeping operations and special missions

	11.	Takes note of the proposals of the Secretary-General in section 3 of the proposed programme budget relating to the full range of administrative support for ad hoc missions under the good offices of the Secretary-General, peace-keeping operations and other special and field missions, and of the comments and recommendations of the Advisory Committee;

	12.	Decides, in this regard, to review the number of posts and the level of appropriation for section 3 by 31 March 1996, in the context of the comprehensive review of the Support Account;

Section 5. International Court of Justice

	13.	Requests all relevant entities at The Hague to continue negotiations with the aim of obtaining economies through common administrative services;

	14.	Accepts the proposal of the Secretary-General, subject to the recommendations of the Advisory Committee, for the enlargement of the premises of the International Court of Justice, subject to further review in the context of a savings report called for in section II, paragraph 7 of the present resolution;

Section 6. Legal activities

	15.	Notes the assurances given by the Secretary-General that adequate resources are available within section 6 of the proposed programme budget to enable the Secretary-General to implement fully the provisions of General Assembly resolutions 49/60 of 9 December 1994 and 50/53 of 11 December 1995 regarding measures to eliminate international terrorism;

Section 7A. Department for Policy Coordination and Sustainable Development

	16.	Approves the provision of 500,000 United States dollars as the United Nations contribution to the financing of the activities of the Non-Governmental Liaison Service;

	17.	Requests the Secretary-General to ensure that there are adequate resources for follow-up to the World Summit for Social Development, held at Copenhagen from 6 to 12 March 1995, and the Fourth World Conference on Women, held at Beijing from 4 to 15 September 1995, as well as resources for climate change;

Section 7B. Africa:  critical economic situation, recovery and development

	18.	Decides, pursuant to section V of its resolution 49/219 of 23 December 1994, to create a separate identifiable programme budget section for the implementation of activities relating to programme 45 of the medium-term plan for the period 1992-1997 as revised by the General Assembly in its resolution 47/214;

	19.	Decides also to establish one P-5 post and to redeploy from section 26H of the proposed programme budget one General Service post to strengthen the implementation of activities relating to programme 45 as revised by the General Assembly in its resolution 47/214;

	20.	Requests the Secretary-General to review the level of resources devoted to the implementation of activities related to Africa:  critical economic situation, recovery and development, and to make proposals with a view to strengthening those activities, taking into account General Assembly resolutions 47/214 and 49/142 of 23 December 1994 and the recommendation of the Committee on Programme Coordination in paragraph 101 of its report 2/ to the General Assembly at its fiftieth session, and to report thereon to the Assembly before the end of its fiftieth session;

Section 8. Department for Economic and Social Information and Policy Analysis

	21.	Endorses the proposals of the Secretary-General, as contained in table 8.3 of the proposed programme budget, which already include internal redeployments within the Department for Economic and Social Information and Policy Analysis, and requests the Secretary-General to review the staffing of the Department with a view to achieving efficiency gains, including possible redeployment of posts, and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its resumed fiftieth session;

Section 9. Department for Development Support and Management Services

	22.	Notes with deep concern the sharp decrease in the level of extrabudgetary resources for the Department for Development Support and Management Services, which has had an adverse impact on its ability to carry out mandated activities, and requests the Secretary-General to intensify his efforts to mobilize extrabudgetary resources;

	23.	Endorses in principle the management objectives stated in the proposal of the Secretary-General;

	24.	Also endorses the proposal of the Secretary-General contained in paragraph 9.25 of the proposed programme budget;

	25.	Decides that the posts and related functions proposed in paragraph 9.54 of the proposed programme budget for transfer to New York shall remain at Geneva, pending a comprehensive review by the Secretary-General of the implications of the transfer for programme delivery, and requests the Secretary-General to report thereon as soon as possible, but no later than the resumed fiftieth session, with a view to achieving maximum efficiency;

Section 10A. United Nations Conference on Trade and Development

	26.	Approves the establishment of a P-4 post for the follow-up to the Conference on Small Island Developing States as approved by the General Assembly in its resolution 49/122 of 19 December 1994, and requests the Secretary-General to fill the position on a priority basis;

	27.	Decides to maintain the D-2 post for transnational corporation activities on a temporary basis;

Section 11. United Nations Environment Programme

	28.	Defers a decision on the abolition of the P-5 post of energy expert pending a review by the General Assembly, on the basis of information to be provided by the Secretary-General during the resumed fiftieth session, of all posts that, as of 29 November 1995, had been vacant since 1 January 1994;

Section 13. Crime control

	29.	Approves the upgrading of the Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Branch to a division and the consequent reclassification of the D-1 post of the Chief of the Branch to the D-2 level;

	30.	Also approves the establishment of two P-3 posts for activities relating to subprogramme 2 (Collaborative action against transnational crime) and subprogramme 3 (Crime prevention and criminal justice management) of section 13 of the proposed programme budget;

	31.	Requests the Secretary-General, in strengthening the Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Division, to review the adequacy of resources made available for crime prevention activities at the regional level and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its fifty-first session;

	32.	Also requests the Secretary-General to report on the status of implementation of the strategic management plan of the Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Division as adopted by the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice in its resolution 1/1 of 29 April 1992, 5/ including, inter alia, those activities that have achieved demonstrable results in combating international crime, assisting international law enforcement or otherwise meeting current mandates of the United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders and of the Commission;  

Section 14. International drug control

	33.	Endorses the proposal of the Secretary-General to create two additional P-3 posts to strengthen the capacity of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme;

Section 18. Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean

	34.	Endorses the urgent need reflected in paragraph 33.68 of the medium-term plan for the period 1992-1997 to study and elaborate, in close cooperation with the United Nations International Drug Control Programme, the economic and social impact caused by the production and trafficking of narcotic and psychotropic substances in Latin America and the Caribbean, and approves the creation of one P-4 post, through existing classification procedures, for activities related to subprogramme 9 (Social development) to undertake, in close cooperation and coordination with the Programme, the functions contained in paragraph 33.69 of the medium-term plan;

Section 20. Regular programme of technical cooperation

	35.	Approves expenditure under this section at the same level as in 1994-1995;

Section 21. Human rights

	36.	Reaffirms the role of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights in promoting and protecting the realization of all human rights, including the right to development, and in enhancing support from relevant bodies of the United Nations system for this purpose;

	37.	Requests the Secretary-General, taking into account the proposals of the High Commissioner made in the context of the ongoing process of restructuring the Centre for Human Rights, to establish in the biennium 1996-1997 a new branch whose primary responsibilities would include the promotion and protection of the right to development;

	38.	Also requests the Secretary-General to formulate appropriate programmatic follow-up to the activities to be carried out by this branch, in particular follow-up to the implementation of the Declaration on the Right to Development 6/ in accordance with paragraph 6 of General Assembly resolution 50/184 of 22 December 1995, for inclusion in the next medium-term plan;

	39.	Decides that the Secretary-General shall report by 31 March 1996 to the General Assembly at its resumed fiftieth session, making proposals on the appropriate level and distribution of resources for the Centre for Human Rights, taking into account paragraphs 36 and 37 above and the restructuring of the Centre;

	40.	Endorses, pending consideration of the report of the Secretary-General, the recommendations of the Advisory Committee as contained in paragraph VI.11 of its first report on the proposed programme budget;

Section 24. Department of Humanitarian Affairs

	41.	Endorses the proposal of the Secretary-General on the level of resources assigned to section 24 of the proposed programme budget;

	42.	Expresses deep concern over the sharp decrease in the level of extrabudgetary resources for the Department of Humanitarian Affairs, which has had an adverse impact on its ability to carry out mandated activities, and requests the Secretary-General to intensify his efforts to mobilize extrabudgetary resources;

Section 25. Public information

	43.	Requests the Secretary-General to evaluate the capability and effectiveness of United Nations information centres in the performance of their functions, including, inter alia, retrieval and dissemination of information, taking into account electronic information, where accessible,  and to report thereon to the General Assembly, through the Committee on Information, at the fifty-first session;

	44.	Also requests the Secretary-General to evaluate the activities of the Dag Hammarskjöld Library with a view to improving the efficiency and effectiveness of its functioning;

	45.	Further requests the Secretary-General to ensure that internal printing services are used more efficiently, limiting external contracting to cases that are strictly necessary, unless the external contracting provides the same services at a lower cost;

	46.	Decides that the standards utilized to determine the volume of work and the composition of the staff that provide services for international conferences outside Headquarters should be modified in order to reduce the costs of these activities through the utilization of advanced technologies;

	47.	Reiterates its resolution 50/84 C of 15 December 1995 on public information activities relating to Palestine, and requests the Secretary-General to provide the necessary resources for these activities during the biennium 1996-1997;

	48.	Reaffirms the importance attached by Member States to the role of the United Nations information centres in effectively and comprehensively disseminating information about United Nations activities, particularly in developing countries and countries with economies in transition, and requests the Secretary-General to continue to provide adequate resources to enable them to carry out their mandated activities;

	49.	Also reaffirms the continued usefulness of publications of the Department of Public Information in the dissemination of information, and, taking into account paragraph 7 of General Assembly resolution 50/31 B of 6 December 1995, requests the Secretary-General to continue providing adequate resources for that purpose;

Section 26. Administration and management

	50.	Decides to defer the proposal for the allocation of financial and personnel resources for the reform of the internal justice system as proposed in section 26A of the proposed programme budget until the General Assembly takes a decision on this issue;

	51.	Requests the Secretary-General, taking into account the increased workload of the Fifth Committee, to designate a deputy to the Secretary of the Fifth Committee as soon as possible but no later than the beginning of the first part of the resumed fiftieth session of the General Assembly;

	52.	Takes note of the proposal of the Secretary-General in section 26B of the proposed programme budget relating to the Peace-keeping Financing Division and the comments and recommendations of the Advisory Committee thereon;

	53.	Decides, in this regard, to review the number of posts and the level of appropriation for section 26B by 31 March 1996, in the context of the comprehensive review of the Support Account;

	54.	Decides also to maintain the two P-2 Language Coordinator posts and the two full-time language teachers in the Training Service;

	55.	Requests the Office of Internal Oversight Services to undertake a comprehensive audit of the outsourcing practices, including, in particular, the contracting process, and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its fifty-first session;

	56.	Requests the Secretary-General to consider extending the application of section XVII of General Assembly resolution 36/235 of 18 December 1981 regarding language training for all the main United Nations duty stations and to report thereon during the fifty-first session of the Assembly; 
	57.	Decides further to maintain the current 1994-1995 staffing table for Conference and library services, Vienna;

	58.	Reaffirms the need for a comprehensive, substantive and timely dialogue between Member States and the Secretary-General on administrative and budgetary matters;

	59.	Notes the assurances given by the Secretary-General that adequate resources are available to ensure the provision of improved meeting arrangements and facilities for the holding of bilateral meetings and contacts among Member States on a basis similar to that provided during the fiftieth session of the General Assembly, during subsequent sessions of the Assembly in 1996-1997;

	60.	Endorses the recommendation of the Advisory Committee on section 26H of the proposed programme budget with the exception of the General Service post redeployed to section 7B;

Section 27. Jointly financed administrative activities

	61.	Requests the International Civil Service Commission to examine and report to the General Assembly on other less-costly forms for collecting data on prices and for their studies on the cost of living, including the Office of Human Resources Management, from private and governmental sources, and the possibility of outsourcing;

	62.	Endorses the request of the Advisory Committee that the Joint Inspection Unit review its practice of allocating travel funds so as to ensure their most efficient use, and recommends that a system of allocating travel funds in accordance with specific studies and activities related to the implementation of the programme of work as approved by the Unit be established;

	63.	Requests the Joint Inspection Unit to establish appropriate procedures to ensure that the travel system and work procedures referred to in paragraph 62 above are respected;

	64.	Requests the Secretary-General to fill the existing vacancies in the Joint Inspection Unit secretariat as soon as possible and no later than 30 June 1996;

	65.	Also requests the Secretary-General, taking into account the decision to strengthen external oversight mechanisms, in close cooperation with the Joint Inspection Unit and in conformity with the procedures for consultation with the Administrative Committee on Coordination, to present proposals on strengthening the Unit's secretariat in the framework of the revised estimates for the programme budget for the biennium 1996-1997;

Section 28. Special expenses

	66.	Requests the Secretary-General to review and report on the cost of after-service health insurance;

Section 29. Office of Internal Oversight Services

	67.	Agrees to establish the following posts:  two P-3 (Monitoring and inspection), one P-5 (Evaluation), one D-1 (Investigations), one P-5 (Investigations) and one P-3/4 (Investigations);

	68.	Also agrees to establish, on a temporary basis, the rest of the posts as approved by the Advisory Committee, subject to the presentation of the workload analysis and job descriptions;

Section 31. Construction, alteration, improvement and major maintenance

	69.	Decides that for the biennium 1996-1997 only essential repairs and construction, the deferral of which would endanger occupational health and safety, leave the Organization in breach of local building regulations or in the longer term not be cost-effective, should be carried out and that, as a result, the proposed estimates for alterations, improvements and major maintenance would be reduced by 12 million dollars;

	70.	Takes note of the assurances given by the Secretariat with regard to the status of implementation of the United Nations construction project at Addis Ababa, and requests the Secretary-General to take all necessary measures to ensure that the project is completed as approved;




Section 33. International Seabed Authority

	71.	Approves the level of resources for conference servicing of the International Seabed Authority under section 26E of the proposed programme budget;

	72.	Also approves the level of resources for administrative expenses of the International Seabed Authority recommended by the Advisory Committee on the understanding that expenditures beyond an amount of 776,000 dollars would, on an exceptional basis, be absorbed under section 31 of the proposed programme budget;

Income section 3

	73.	Requests the Secretary-General to review the functioning and operation of garages in the main duty stations, taking into account the need to provide sufficient parking facilities, and to submit proposals thereon to the General Assembly at its fifty-first session;

	74.	Requests the Office of Internal Oversight Services to examine the management of the catering facilities at Headquarters and to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-first session;

	IV

	1.	Decides that the amounts under expenditure sections 1 to 33 as provided under section III of the present resolution represent a provisional total of 2,712,265,200 dollars;

	2.	Also decides that the projected level of savings to be achieved during the biennium will be 103,991,200 dollars;

	3.	Further decides that the total level of expenditure provided for in 1996-1997 is 2,608,274,000 dollars;

	4.	Decides therefore that Member States be assessed on the basis of the amount of 2,608,274,000 dollars for the biennium 1996-1997.


	100th plenary meeting
	23 December 1995

     1/	Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session, Supplement No. 6 (A/50/6/Rev.1), vols. I and II.
     2/	A/50/16.
     3/	Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 6 and corrigendum (A/47/6/Rev.1 and Corr.1), vols. I and II.
     4/	Ibid., Fiftieth Session, Supplement No. 7 and corrigendum (A/50/7 and Corr.1).
     5/	See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1992, Supplement No. 10 (E/1992/30), chap. I, sect. C.
     6/	Resolution 41/128, annex.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------



 

 


96-76993	/...


96-76993	/...

A/RES/50/214
Page 1


	A/RES/50/214
	Page 1



96-76993	/...


96-76993	/...

A/RES/50/214
Page 1


	A/RES/50/214
	Page 1



	/...


	/...

A/RES/50/214
Page 13


	A/RES/50/214
	Page 13






