<<ODS JOB NO>>N9877065E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/52/136<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>

UNITED									A
NATIONS



					General Assembly


																		Distr.
																		GENERAL

																		A/RES/52/136
																		3 March 1998






Fifty-second session
Agenda item 112 (b)


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/52/644/Add.2)]


52/136.Right to development


	The General Assembly,

	Reaffirming the Declaration on the Right to Development,1 which it proclaimed at its forty-first session, and noting that the Declaration represents a landmark and a meaningful instrument for countries and people worldwide;

	Reaffirming also the commitment contained in the Charter of the United Nations to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom,

	Recalling its previous resolutions and those of the Commission on Human Rights relating to the right to development,

	Also recalling the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993,2 which reaffirms the right to development as a universal and inalienable right and as an integral part of fundamental human rights and reaffirms that the human person is the central subject of development,


	Emphasizing that development-oriented approaches to the promotion of human rights, as expressed by the Declaration on the Right to Development, constitute an important contribution to the development and strengthening of alternative approaches to the promotion and protection of all human rights,

	Recalling that, in order to promote development, equal attention and urgent consideration should be given to the implementation, promotion and protection of civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights, and recognizing that all human rights are universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated and that the universality, objectivity, impartiality and non-selectivity of the consideration of human rights issues must be ensured,

	Also recalling that democracy, respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the right to development, transparent and accountable governance in all sectors of society, as well as effective participation by civil society, are essential parts of the necessary foundation for the realization of social and people-centred sustainable development,

	Further recalling the principles proclaimed in the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development of 14 June 1992,3 and taking note of the deliberations of the General Assembly at its nineteenth special session,

	Acknowledging that, in this regard, a number of positive results have been achieved, but deeply concerned that the overall trends with respect to sustainable development are worse today than they were in 1992,

	Mindful that the Commission on Human Rights continues to consider this matter and that the second session of the Intergovernmental Group of Experts established by the Commission on Human Rights to elaborate a strategy for the implementation and promotion of the right to development, as set forth in the Declaration on the Right to Development, in its integrated and multidimensional aspects, was held at Geneva from 29 September to 10 October 1997, with a view to further enhancement and implementation of the right to development,

	Noting the need for improved coordination and cooperation throughout the United Nations system for more effective promotion and realization of the right to development,

	Recognizing that the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights has an important role to play in the promotion, protection and realization of the right to development, including in seeking enhanced support from the relevant bodies of the United Nations system for this purpose,

	Reaffirming that lasting progress towards the implementation of the right to development requires effective development policies at the national level, as well as equitable economic relations and a favourable economic environment at the international level,

	Recognizing that the implementation of the Declaration on the Right to Development requires effective development policies and support at the international level through the effective contribution of States, organs and organizations of the United Nations system and non-governmental organizations active in this field,

	Expressing its concern about the lack of participation of developing countries at the global level in the decision-making process on macroeconomic policy issues, with far-reaching impacts on the world economy and with negative implications for the exercise of the right to development in developing countries,

	Reaffirming the need for action by all States at the national and international levels for the realization of all human rights and the need for relevant evaluation mechanisms to ensure the promotion, encouragement and reinforcement of the principles contained in the Declaration on the Right to Development,

	Also reaffirming that all States should promote the establishment, maintenance and strengthening of international peace and security and, to that end, should do their utmost to achieve general and complete disarmament under effective international control and to ensure that the resources released by effective disarmament measures are used for comprehensive development, in particular that of developing countries,

	Noting that aspects of the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development, adopted by the Conference on 13 September 1994,4 the Copenhagen Declaration on Social Development and the Programme of Action of the World Summit for Social Development, adopted by the Summit on 12 March 1995,5 the Beijing Declaration and the Platform for Action, adopted by the Fourth World Conference on Women on 15 September 1995,6 and the Istanbul Declaration on Human Settlements and the Habitat Agenda, adopted by the second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) at Istanbul, Turkey, on 14 June 1996,7 are relevant to the universal realization of the right to development, within the context of promoting and protecting all human rights,

	Affirming the need to apply a gender perspective in the implementation of the right to development, inter alia, by ensuring that women play an active role in the development process,

	Expressing concern that, more than ten years after the adoption of the Declaration on the Right to Development, obstacles to the realization of the right to development still persist at both the national and international levels and that new obstacles to the rights stated therein have emerged, including, inter alia, the negative effects of globalization on the right to development, particularly in developing countries,

	Expressing further concern that the Declaration on the Right to Development is insufficiently disseminated and should be taken into account, as appropriate, in bilateral and multilateral cooperation programmes, national development strategies and policies and activities of international organizations,

	Having considered the note by the Secretary-General on the right to development,8 prepared pursuant to General Assembly resolution 51/99 of 12 December 1996,

	1.	Takes note of the note by the Secretary-General;

	2.	Reaffirms the importance of the right to development for every human person and for all peoples in all countries, in particular the developing countries, as an integral part of fundamental human rights, as well as the potential contribution its realization could make to the full enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms;

	3.	Recognizes that the Declaration on the Right to Development1 constitutes an integral link between the Universal Declaration of Human Rights9 and the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action2 through its elaboration of a holistic vision integrating economic, social and cultural rights with civil and political rights;

	4.	Reiterates its commitment to implementing the results of the World Conference on Human Rights, which reaffirm that all human rights are universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated and that democracy, development and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms are interdependent and mutually reinforcing;

	5.	Also reiterates that lasting progress towards the implementation of the right to development requires effective development policies at the national level, as well as an equitable economic environment at the international level;

	6.	Reaffirms the need for States to cooperate with a view to promoting, encouraging and strengthening universal respect for and observance of all human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, without any distinction as to race, sex, language or religion;

	7.	Stresses that human rights should not be used as an instrument of trade protectionism;

	8.	Takes note of the importance given to human rights by the Secretary-General in his measures and proposals for the reform of the United Nations,10 and urges him to give high priority to the promotion and realization of the right to development;

	9.	Calls upon the Commission on Human Rights to consider carefully the report of the second session of the Intergovernmental Group of Experts to elaborate a strategy for the implementation and promotion of the right to development, as set forth in the Declaration on the Right to Development, in its integrated and multidimensional aspects,11 bearing in mind the conclusions of the Working Group on the Right to Development established by the Commission on Human Rights in its resolution 1993/22 of 4 March 199312 and the conclusions of the World Conference on Human Rights, the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, the International Conference on Population and Development, the World Summit for Social Development, the Fourth World Conference on Women and the second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II);

	10.	Notes the efforts made by the High Commissioner, within her mandate, and encourages her to continue the coordination of various activities with regard to the implementation of the right to development;

	11.	Notes also that measures taken for the promotion and realization of the right to development should be more effective, and calls upon the High Commissioner to explore further ways and means to achieve this objective;

	12.	Requests the High Commissioner, within her mandate, to continue to take steps for the promotion, protection and realization of the right to development by, inter alia, drawing on the expertise of the funds, programmes and the specialized agencies of the United Nations system related to the field of development;

	13.	Requests the Secretary-General to inform the Commission on Human Rights at its fifty-fourth session and the General Assembly at its fifty-third session of the activities of the organizations, funds, programmes and the specialized agencies of the United Nations system for the implementation of the Declaration on the Right to Development, as well as obstacles identified by them to the realization of the right to development;

	14.	Calls upon all Member States to make further concrete efforts at the national and international levels to remove obstacles to the realization of the right to development;

	15.	Calls upon the Commission on Human Rights to continue to make proposals to the General Assembly, through the Economic and Social Council, on the future course of action on the question, in particular on practical measures for the implementation and enhancement of the Declaration on the Right to Development, including comprehensive and effective measures to eliminate obstacles to its implementation, taking into account the conclusions and recommendations of the Global Consultation on the Realization of the Right to Development as a Human Right,13 the reports of the Working Group on the Right to Development and the report of the Intergovernmental Group of Experts to elaborate a strategy for the implementation and promotion of the right to development;

	16.	Notes that the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is an ideal occasion for the international community to assess the progress achieved in:


	(a)	Realizing freedom from fear and freedom from want as the highest aspiration of the common people;

	(b)	Promoting the advent of a world where the inherent dignity of all members of the human family is recognized;

	17.	Affirms, in the above regard, that the inclusion of the Declaration on the Right to Development in the International Bill of Human Rights14 would be an appropriate means of celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights;

	18.	Encourages all States to address, within the declarations and programmes of action adopted by the relevant international conferences convened by the United Nations, the elements for the promotion and protection of the principles of the right to development as set out in the Declaration on the Right to Development;

	19.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report on the implementation of the present resolution to the General Assembly at its fifty-third session;

	20.	Decides to consider this question at its fifty-third session under the sub-item entitled "Human rights questions, including alternative approaches for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms".

	70th plenary meeting
	 12 December 1997
1 Resolution 41/128, annex.
2 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
3 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 3-14 June 1992, vol. I, Resolutions Adopted by the Conference (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigenda), resolution 1, annex I.
4 Report of the International Conference on Population and Development, Cairo, 5-13 September 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.95.XIII.18), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
5 Report of the World Summit for Social Development, Copenhagen, 6-12 March 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.8), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.
6 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.
7 A/CONF.165/14, chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.
8 A/52/473.
9 Resolution 217 A (III).
10 See A/52/303 and Add.1.
11 E/CN.4/1998/29.
12 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1993, Supplement No. 3 (E/1993/23), chap. II, sect. A.
13 See E/CN.4/1990/Rev.1.
14 See resolutions 217 A (III), 2200 A (XXI), annex and 44/128, annex.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------



 

 


98-77065	/...


98-77065	/...

A/RES/52/136
Page 1



	A/RES/52/136
	Page 1




98-77065	/...


98-77065	/...

A/RES/52/136
Page 2



	A/RES/52/136
	Page 2




	/...


	/...

A/RES/52/136
Page 6



	A/RES/52/136
	Page 6







