[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly

[on the report of the Third Committee (A/55/602/Add.2 and Corr.1)]
		55/105.	Regional arrangements for the promotion and protection of human rights


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 32/127 of 16 December 1977 and all its subsequent resolutions concerning regional arrangements for the promotion and protection of human rights,
	Recalling also Commission on Human Rights resolution 1993/51 of 9 March 19931 and its subsequent resolutions in this regard,
	Bearing in mind the relevant resolutions of the Commission concerning advisory services and technical cooperation in the field of human rights, including its most recent on that subject, resolution 2000/80 of 26 April 2000,2
	Bearing in mind also the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993,3 which reiterates, inter alia, the need to consider the possibility of establishing regional and subregional arrangements for the promotion and protection of human rights where they do not already exist,
	Recalling that the World Conference recommended that more resources should be made available for the strengthening of regional arrangements for the promotion and protection of human rights under the programme of technical cooperation in the field of human rights of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights,
	Reaffirming that regional arrangements play a fundamental role in promoting and protecting human rights and should reinforce universal human rights standards, as contained in international human rights instruments, and their protection,
	Noting the progress achieved so far in the promotion and protection of human rights at the regional level under the auspices of the United Nations, the specialized agencies and the regional intergovernmental organizations,
	Considering that cooperation between the United Nations and regional arrangements in the field of human rights continues to be both substantive and supportive and that possibilities exist for increased cooperation,
	1.	Takes note with satisfaction of the report of the Secretary-General;4
	2.	Welcomes the continuing cooperation and assistance of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights in the further strengthening of the existing regional arrangements and regional machinery for the promotion and protection of human rights, in particular through technical cooperation which is aimed at national capacity-building, public information and education, with a view to exchanging information and experience in the field of human rights;
	3.	Also welcomes, in that respect, the close cooperation of the Office of the High Commissioner in the organization of regional and subregional training courses and workshops in the field of human rights, high-level governmental expert meetings and regional conferences of national human rights institutions, aimed at creating greater understanding in the regions of issues concerning the promotion and protection of human rights, improving procedures and examining the various systems for the promotion and protection of universally accepted human rights standards, and identifying obstacles to ratification of the principal international human rights treaties and strategies to overcome them;
	4.	Recognizes, therefore, that progress in promoting and protecting all human rights depends primarily on efforts made at the national and local levels and that the regional approach should imply intensive cooperation and coordination with all partners involved;
	5.	Stresses the importance of the programme of technical cooperation in the field of human rights, renews its appeal to all Governments to consider making use of the possibilities offered by the United Nations under this programme of organizing information or training courses at the national level for government personnel on the application of international human rights standards and the experience of relevant international bodies, and notes with satisfaction, in that respect, the establishment of technical cooperation projects with Governments of all regions;
	6.	Welcomes the growing exchanges between the United Nations and the bodies created by the United Nations in accordance with the treaties dealing with human rights, on the one hand, and regional intergovernmental organizations, such as the Council of Europe, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights and the African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights, on the other;
	7.	Also welcomes the appointment by the High Commissioner of four human rights personalities to serve as regional advisors, who will play a significant role in the promotion of human rights and human rights advocacy through the design of strategies and the development of partnerships for human rights, facilitate coordination of human rights technical cooperation in the region and assist regional cooperation at large, for example, among national institutions, parliamentary human rights bodies, bar associations and non-governmental organizations;
	8.	Recalls in this regard the positive experience of the presence of the Office of the High Commissioner in southern Africa, which will serve as guidance in the development of the regional approach of the Office of the High Commissioner;
	9.	Notes with interest the programme for Africa of the Office of the High Commissioner and the objective of strengthening cooperation between the Office of the High Commissioner and the Organization of African Unity with a view to reviewing, on a regular basis, needs in the area of human rights in the various subregions;
	10.	Also notes with interest the further developments in the implementation of the Framework for Regional Technical Cooperation for the Asia-Pacific Region, which is enhancing technical cooperation in the promotion and protection of human rights in the region;5
	11.	Takes note with interest of the Quito Framework for Technical Cooperation in the Field of Human Rights, which serves as a basis for the regional strategy of the Office of the High Commissioner and aims at strengthening national capacities for the promotion of human rights in Latin America and the Caribbean;
	12.	Welcomes the continued cooperation between the Office of the High Commissioner and regional organizations in Europe and Central Asia, in particular in the development, as a priority, of a regional approach to preventing trafficking in persons;
	13.	Invites States in areas in which regional arrangements in the field of human rights do not yet exist to consider concluding agreements with a view to establishing, within their respective regions, suitable regional machinery for the promotion and protection of human rights;
	14.	Requests the Secretary-General, as foreseen in programme 19 (Human rights) of the medium-term plan for the period 1998-2001,6 to continue to strengthen exchanges between the United Nations and regional intergovernmental organizations dealing with human rights and to make available adequate resources from within the regular budget of technical cooperation to the activities of the Office of the High Commissioner to promote regional arrangements;
	15.	Requests the Commission on Human Rights to continue to pay special attention to the most appropriate ways of assisting, at their request, countries of the various regions under the programme of technical cooperation and to make, where necessary, relevant recommendations;
	16.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session a report on the state of regional arrangements for the promotion and protection of human rights and to include therein the results of action taken in pursuance of the present resolution;
	17.	Decides to consider this question further at its fifty-seventh session.

81st plenary meeting
4 December 2000
1 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1993, Supplement No. 3 and corrigenda (E/1993/23 and Corr.2, 4 and 5), chap. II, sect. A.
2 Ibid., 2000, Supplement No. 3  and corrigendum (E/2000/23 and Corr.1), chap. II, sect. A.
3 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
4 A/55/279.
5 Ibid., sect. III.B.
6 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-third Session, Supplement No. 6 (A/53/6/Rev.1).
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0056569E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/55/105<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

A/RES/55/105


A/RES/55/105


2
    

3
    

United NationsA/RES/55/105General AssemblyDistr.: General
14 March 2001Fifty-fifth session
Agenda item 114 (b)

00 56569

