[hj1]UNITED									A
NATIONS



             General Assembly


                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/54/187
                                                                          29 February 2000

                                                                          



Fifty-fourth session
Agenda item 116 (c)


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/54/605/Add.3)]


54/187.  Situation of human rights in Haiti

    The General Assembly,

    Guided by the principles embodied in the Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,1 the International Covenants on Human Rights2 and other international human rights instruments, including the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,3

    Recalling its resolution 53/159 of 9 December 1998, and taking note of Commission on Human Rights resolution 1999/77 of 28 April 1999,4

    Recognizing the interdependence and mutual reinforcement between democracy, development and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the commitment of the international community to supporting, strengthening and promoting this principle,


    Taking note with appreciation of the report of the independent expert of the Commission on Human Rights on the situation of human rights in Haiti, Adama Dieng,5 and encouraging active follow-up of the recommendations contained therein, 

    Recognizing the important contributions of the International Civilian Mission in Haiti, the United Nations Civilian Police Mission in Haiti and the National Commission for Truth and Justice to the task of restoring and strengthening democracy in Haiti and of establishing a climate of freedom and tolerance conducive to respect for human rights,

    Commending the Organization of American States for its contribution to the Civilian Mission, and inviting that organization to pursue, as appropriate, its cooperation with the United Nations in Haiti,

    Welcoming the establishment of the new Provisional Electoral Council and the decision taken to organize legislative and local elections on 19 March 2000 and in April 2000 as a step towards re-establishing a functional legislature,

    Welcoming also the continued improvements in the situation of human rights in Haiti since the restoration of its democratic regime, and noting the declared commitment of the Government of Haiti to uphold human rights,

    Expressing its concern at the security problems faced by Haitian society, some of which are due to the difficult social and economic conditions and which both account for and result from the limitations of the judicial and police systems, as indicated in the report of the independent expert, 

    Welcoming Economic and Social Council resolution 1999/11 of 27 July 1999, in which the Council, inter alia, emphasized the need to establish the necessary mechanisms to develop, on a priority basis, a long-term strategy and programme of support for Haiti, 

    1.	Expresses its gratitude to the Secretary-General, his Special Representative for Haiti and the independent expert of the Commission on Human Rights on the situation of human rights in Haiti for their continuing efforts in favour of the consolidation of democratic institutions in Haiti and respect for human rights;

    2.	Commends the United Nations Civilian Police Mission in Haiti for its successful training and mentoring assistance to the Haitian National Police, as well as the efforts of the International Civilian Mission in Haiti in monitoring human rights and promoting democratic reform and assisting the Haitian authorities in the area of institution-building; 

    3.	Draws attention to the need for the Haitian National Police to continue to receive technical assistance to enable it to perform its functions efficiently within a framework of respect for human rights;

    4.	Commends the United Nations Development Programme for its technical assistance to the Haitian National Police and the penitentiary system as well as in the organization of the forthcoming electoral process, also commends the international community for the provision of other assistance, including for judicial reform, and invites them to continue to provide appropriate assistance;
    
    5.	Invites the Government of Haiti to ratify the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,2 the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment,6 and the Optional Protocols to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights;7

    6.	Strongly supports the efforts made to enable the people of Haiti to express their political will in the forthcoming legislative and local elections, invites all the political leaders of the country to involve themselves in a constructive dialogue, and in this connection invites the Government of Haiti to ensure the necessary political and security environment for the holding of free and fair elections in accordance with the schedule recently announced by the Provisional Electoral Council;

    7.	Calls upon the Government of Haiti to continue structural reforms in the police and the judicial system and the improvement of the prison sector, to investigate properly politically motivated crimes and prosecute perpetrators of such crimes in accordance with Haitian law, to take vigorous action to eliminate any continuing human rights violations, including illegal arrests and detentions, and to ensure due process within a reasonable time;

    8.	Reaffirms the importance, for combating impunity and for the realization of a genuine and effective process of transition and national reconciliation, of the investigations undertaken by the National Commission for Truth and Justice, and once again calls upon the Government of Haiti to institute legal proceedings against the perpetrators of human rights violations identified by the National Commission and to create effective facilities for providing support to the victims, in particular women, children and members of their families, and in this specific context reiterates the recommendations contained in the report of the independent expert of the Commission on Human Rights on the situation of human rights in Haiti;5

    9.	Welcomes the initiative of the Government of Haiti, in collaboration with the international community and women's groups, to put in place measures to address the human rights of women and, inter alia, violence against women, including the development of training programmes for judicial and legal personnel and the incorporation of the precept of the human rights of women at all levels of the education system;

    10.	Encourages the Government of Haiti to promote further the rights of children, in particular their right to education;

    11.	Invites the Secretary-General and the Government of Haiti to contribute to the strengthening of the Office for the Protection of Citizens through the establishment of a programme of technical cooperation, in close collaboration with the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, and invites the international community to assist in this effort;






    12.	Decides to continue its consideration of the situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Haiti at its fifty-fifth session.


	83rd plenary meeting
	17 December 1999
1 Resolution 217 A (III).
2 Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
3 Resolution 34/180, annex.
4 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1999, Supplement No. 3 (E/1999/23), chap. II, sect. A.
5 See A/54/366.
6 Resolution 39/46, annex.
7 See resolutions 2200 A (XXI), annex, and 44/128, annex.
[hj1]
<<ODS JOB NO>>N0031460E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/54/187<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------


00 31460	/...


00 31460	/...

A/RES/53/
Page 


	A/RES/53/187
	Page 


A/RES/53/
Page 



	/...


	/...

A/RES/53/187
Page 




	A/RES/53/187
	Page 








