[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 18 December 2009
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/64/433)]
64/137.	Intensification of efforts to eliminate all forms of violence against women


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 61/143 of 19 December 2006, 62/133 of 18 December 2007 and 63/155 of 18 December 2008, and all its previous resolutions on the elimination of violence against women,
	Reaffirming the strong support expressed in its resolution 63/311 of 14 September 2009 for the consolidation of the Office of the Special Adviser on Gender Issues and Advancement of Women, the Division for the Advancement of Women, the United Nations Development Fund for Women and the International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women into a composite entity, taking into account the existing mandates, which would be led by an Under-Secretary-General,
	Reaffirming also the obligation of all States to promote and protect all human rights and fundamental freedoms, and reaffirming further that discrimination on the basis of sex is contrary to the Charter of the United Nations, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women1 and other international human rights instruments, and that its elimination is an integral part of efforts towards the elimination of all forms of violence against women,
	Reaffirming further the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women,2 the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action,3 the outcome of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly entitled "Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the twenty-first century",4 and the declaration adopted at the forty-ninth session of the Commission on the Status of Women,5
	Reaffirming the international commitments in the field of social development and to gender equality and the advancement of women made at the World Conference on Human Rights, the International Conference on Population and Development, the World Summit for Social Development and the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, as well as those made in the United Nations Millennium Declaration6 and at the 2005 World Summit,7
	Recalling Security Council resolutions 1325 (2000) of 31 October 2000 and 1820 (2008) of 19 June 2008 on women and peace and security, and welcoming the adoption of Council resolution 1882 (2009) of 4 August 2009 on children and armed conflict and Council resolutions 1888 (2009) of 30 September 2009 and 1889 (2009) of 5 October 2009 on women and peace and security,
	Welcoming Human Rights Council resolution 11/2 of 17 June 2009,8
	Recognizing that women's poverty and lack of empowerment, as well as their marginalization resulting from their exclusion from social policies and from the benefits of sustainable development, can place them at increased risk of violence, and that violence against women impedes the social and economic development of communities and States, as well as the achievement of the internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals, 
	Deeply concerned about the pervasiveness of violence against women and girls in all its different forms and manifestations worldwide, and reiterating the need to intensify efforts to prevent and eliminate all forms of violence against women and girls throughout the world, 
	Stressing that States have the obligation to promote and protect all human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, including women and girls, and must exercise due diligence to prevent and investigate acts of violence against women and girls and punish the perpetrators, to eliminate impunity and to provide protection to the victims, and that failure to do so violates and impairs or nullifies the enjoyment of their human rights and fundamental freedoms,
	Expressing its appreciation for the high number of activities undertaken by the United Nations bodies, entities, funds and programmes and the specialized agencies, including by the Special Rapporteur of the Human Rights Council on violence against women, its causes and consequences, to eliminate all forms of violence against women, and welcoming the recent appointment of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on violence against children,
	1.	Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General, submitted pursuant to General Assembly resolution 63/155;9
	2.	Calls upon the international community, including the United Nations system and, as appropriate, regional and subregional organizations, to support national efforts to promote the empowerment of women and gender equality in order to enhance national efforts to eliminate violence against women and girls, including, upon request, in the development and implementation of national action plans on the elimination of violence against women and girls, through, inter alia, official development assistance and other appropriate assistance, such as facilitating the sharing of guidelines, methodologies and best practices, and taking into account national priorities;
	3.	Calls upon all United Nations bodies, entities, funds and programmes and the specialized agencies and invites the Bretton Woods institutions to intensify their efforts at all levels to eliminate all forms of violence against women and girls and to better coordinate their work, inter alia, through the Task Force on Violence against Women of the Inter-Agency Network on Women and Gender Equality, and looks forward to the results of the ongoing work of the Task Force on composing a manual on joint programming, with a view to increasing effective support for national efforts to eliminate all forms of violence against women;
	4.	Expresses its appreciation for the progress achieved in the Secretary-General's 2008-2015 campaign "UNiTE to End Violence against Women", through the development of a framework for action outlining five key outcomes to be achieved by 2015, supported, inter alia, by the United Nations Development Fund for Women social mobilization and advocacy platform "Say NO to violence against women", the United Nations inter-agency initiative "Stop Rape Now: United Nations Action against Sexual Violence in Conflict" and the regional components of the campaign, stresses the need to accelerate implementation of concrete follow-up activities by the United Nations system to end all forms of violence against women, in close consultation with existing system-wide activities on violence against women, requests the Secretary-General to report on the basis of the results of his campaign, and encourages Member States to join forces in addressing the global pandemic of all forms of violence against women;
	5.	Calls upon the inter-agency Programme Appraisal Committee of the United Nations Trust Fund in Support of Actions to Eliminate Violence against Women, in consultation with the Inter-Agency Network on Women and Gender Equality, to include in its next strategy for the Trust Fund ways and means to further enhance its effectiveness as a system-wide funding mechanism for preventing and redressing all forms of violence against women and girls and to give due consideration, inter alia, to the findings and recommendations of the external evaluation of the Trust Fund once finalized;
	6.	Notes with concern the growing gap between available funding in the United Nations Trust Fund in Support of Actions to Eliminate Violence against Women and the funds required to meet the increasing demand, and urges States and other stakeholders, where possible, to significantly increase their voluntary contributions to the Trust Fund in order to meet the annual target of 100 million United States dollars by 2015 as set by the Secretary-General's campaign "UNiTE to End Violence against Women", while expressing its appreciation for the contributions already made by States, the private sector and other donors to the Trust Fund;
	7.	Stresses that, within the United Nations system, adequate resources should be assigned to those bodies, specialized agencies, funds and programmes responsible for the promotion of gender equality and women's rights and to efforts throughout the United Nations system to eliminate violence against women and girls, calls upon the United Nations system to make the necessary support and resources available in order to allow the Task Force on Violence against Women to undertake a resource flow analysis to assess the resources available for this work and elaborate recommendations for their most effective and efficient use, and also calls upon the United Nations system to respond swiftly to those recommendations once they have been issued;
	8.	Welcomes the establishment of the Secretary-General's database on violence against women,10 expresses its appreciation to all the States that have provided the database with information regarding, inter alia, their national policies and legal frameworks aimed at eliminating violence against women and supporting victims of such violence, strongly encourages all States to regularly provide updated information for the database, and calls upon all relevant entities of the United Nations system to continue to support States, at their request, in the compilation and regular updating of pertinent information and to raise awareness of the database among all relevant stakeholders, including civil society;
	9.	Also welcomes the adoption of an interim set of indicators to measure violence against women11 by the Statistical Commission at its fortieth session,12 and looks forward to the results of the ongoing work of the Commission on this topic; 
	10.	Requests the Secretary-General to present an oral report to the Commission on the Status of Women at its fifty-fourth session, and thereafter to the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session, with information provided by the United Nations bodies, funds and programmes and the specialized agencies, on recent follow-up activities to implement resolution 63/155 and the present resolution, including on the United Nations Trust Fund in Support of Actions to Eliminate Violence against Women, and urges United Nations bodies, entities, funds and programmes and the specialized agencies to contribute promptly to that report.

65th plenary meeting
18 December 2009
1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1249, No. 20378.
2 See resolution 48/104.
3 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.
4 Resolution S-23/2, annex, and resolution S-23/3, annex.
5 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2005, Supplement No. 7 and corrigendum (E/2005/27 and Corr.1), chap. I, sect. A; see also Economic and Social Council decision 2005/232.
6 See resolution 55/2.
7 See resolution 60/1.
8 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 53 (A/64/53), chap. III, sect. A.
9 A/64/151.
10 Available from www.un.org/esa/vawdatabase.
11 See E/CN.3/2009/13, para. 28.
12 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2009, Supplement No. 4 (E/2009/24), chap. I, sect. B, decision 40/110.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0947005E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/64/137<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/64/137General AssemblyDistr.: General
11 February 2010Sixty-fourth session
Agenda item 62 (a)

09-47005
*0947005*

A/RES/64/137

A/RES/64/137

4

3

