[hj1]UNITED									A
NATIONS



             General Assembly


                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/54/138
                                                                          10 February 2000

                                                                          



Fifty-fourth session
Agenda item 109


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/54/598 and Corr.1 and 2)]


54/138.  Violence against women migrant workers

    The General Assembly,

    Recalling all previous resolutions on violence against women migrant workers adopted by the General Assembly, the Commission on the Status of Women, the Commission on Human Rights and the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, as well as the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women,1

    Reaffirming the outcome of the World Conference on Human Rights, held at Vienna from 14 to 25 June 1993,2 and its five-year review, the International Conference on Population and Development3 and its five-year review and the Fourth World Conference on Women,4 specifically as the results pertain to women migrant workers,


    Emphasizing the need for objective, comprehensive, broad-based information and a wide exchange of experiences and lessons learned by individual Member States and civil society in the formulation of policies and concrete strategies to address the problem of violence against women migrant workers,

    Encouraging the participation of civil society in developing and implementing appropriate measures to support innovative partnerships among public agencies, non-governmental organizations and other members of civil society for combating violence against women migrant workers,

    Taking note with appreciation of the recommendations of the Working Group of Intergovernmental Experts on the Human Rights of Migrants of the Commission on Human Rights,5

    Noting the large numbers of women from developing countries and some countries with economies in transition who continue to venture forth to more affluent countries in search of a living for themselves and their families as a consequence of poverty, unemployment and other socio-economic conditions, and acknowledging the duty of the countries of origin to work for conditions that provide employment and security to their citizens,

    Realizing that the movement of a significant number of women migrant workers may be facilitated and made possible through fraudulent or irregular documentation and arranged marriages and that, by the nature of their status and movement, women migrant workers are more vulnerable to abuse and exploitation,

    Acknowledging the economic benefits that accrue to both the country of origin and the country of destination from the employment of women migrant workers,

    Recognizing the importance of joint and collaborative approaches at the bilateral, regional, interregional and international levels in protecting and promoting the rights and welfare of women migrant workers,

    Encouraged by some measures adopted by some countries of destination to alleviate the plight of women migrant workers residing within their areas of jurisdiction,

    Underlining the important role of relevant United Nations treaty bodies in monitoring the implementation of human rights conventions and the relevant special procedures, within their respective mandates, in addressing the problem of violence against women migrant workers and in protecting and promoting their rights and welfare,

    1.	Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General;6

    2.	Also welcomes the appointment of a Special Rapporteur on the human rights of migrants;

    3.	Requests all Governments to cooperate fully with the Special Rapporteur in the performance of the tasks and duties mandated and to furnish all information requested, including by reacting promptly to the urgent appeals of the Special Rapporteur;


    4.	Encourages Governments, in particular those of the countries of origin and destination, to share information on violence against women migrant workers with the Special Rapporteur with a view to requesting the Special Rapporteur to recommend concrete measures and actions to address the problem;

    5.	Also encourages Governments to give serious consideration to inviting the Special Rapporteur to visit their countries so as to enable him or her to fulfil the mandate effectively;

    6.	Urges concerned Governments, in particular those of the countries of origin and destination, to strengthen further their national efforts to protect and promote the rights and welfare of women migrant workers, including through sustained bilateral, regional, interregional and international cooperation, by developing strategies and joint action and taking into account the innovative approaches and experiences of individual Member States, and to establish and maintain continuing dialogues to facilitate the exchange of information;

    7.	Also urges concerned Governments, in particular those of the countries of origin and destination, to support and allocate appropriate resources for programmes aimed at strengthening preventive action, in particular information for relevant target groups, education and campaigns to increase public awareness of this issue at the national and grass-roots levels, in cooperation with non-governmental organizations;

    8.	Encourages Member States to adopt appropriate measures to inform women migrant workers of their rights and the benefits to which they are entitled;

    9.	Calls upon concerned Governments, in particular those of the countries of origin and destination, if they have not done so, to put in place penal and criminal sanctions to punish perpetrators of violence against women migrant workers and, to the extent possible, to provide, and to encourage non-governmental organizations to provide, victims of violence with the full range of immediate assistance and protection, such as counselling, legal and consular assistance, temporary shelter and other measures, that will allow them to be present during the judicial process, as well as to establish reintegration and rehabilitation schemes for returning women migrant workers to their countries of origin;

    10.	Encourages concerned Governments, in particular those of the countries of origin and destination, to support and, if they have not done so, to formulate and implement training programmes for their law enforcers, prosecutors and service providers with a view to instilling among those public sector workers the necessary skills and attitude to ensure the delivery of proper and professional interventions for women migrant workers who are subjected to abuse and violence;

    11.	Also encourages concerned Governments, in particular those of the countries of origin and destination, to adopt measures or strengthen existing ones to regulate the recruitment and deployment of women migrant workers, including considering the adoption of appropriate legal measures against intermediaries who deliberately encourage the clandestine movement of workers and who exploit women migrant workers;

    12.	Invites Governments to identify the causes of undocumented migration and its economic, social and demographic impact, as well as its implications for the formulation and application of social, economic and migration policies, including those relating to women migrant workers;


    13.	Encourages concerned Governments, in particular those of the countries of origin, transit and destination, to avail themselves of the expertise of the United Nations, including the Statistics Division of the Secretariat and other relevant bodies, such as the International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women, to develop appropriate national data-collection methodologies that will generate comparable data on violence against women migrant workers as bases for research and analyses on the subject;

    14.	Encourages Member States to consider ratifying and complying with International Labour Organization conventions and to consider signing and ratifying or acceding to the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families,7 as well as the Slavery Convention of 1926;8

    15.	Encourages the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women to consider developing a general recommendation on the situation of women migrant workers;

    16.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session a report on the problem of violence against women migrant workers and on the implementation of the present resolution, taking into account updated information from the organizations of the United Nations system, in particular the International Labour Organization, the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Development Fund for Women and the International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women, and the International Organization for Migration and other relevant sources, including non-governmental organizations.


	83rd plenary meeting
	17 December 1999
1 Resolution 48/104.
2 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
3 Report of the International Conference on Population and Development, Cairo, 5-13 September 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.95.XIII.18), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
4 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.
5 E/CN.4/1999/80, sect. VII.
6 A/54/342.
7 Resolution 45/158, annex.
8 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 212, No. 2861.
[hj1]
<<ODS JOB NO>>N0027151E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/54/138<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------


00 27151	/...


00 27151	/...

A/RES/53/
Page 


	A/RES/54/138
	Page 


A/RES/53/
Page 



	/...


	/...

A/RES/54/138
Page 




	A/RES/54/138
	Page 








