[COMMENT1]UNITED									A
NATIONS



             General Assembly


                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/53/114
                                                                          20 January 1999

                                                                          



Fifty-third session
Agenda item 101


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/53/616)]


53/114.	Strengthening the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme, in particular its technical cooperation capacity


    The General Assembly,

    Recalling its resolution 46/152 of 18 December 1991 on the creation of an effective United Nations crime prevention and criminal justice programme, in which it approved the statement of principles and programme of action annexed to that resolution,

    Bearing in mind the goals of the United Nations in the field of crime prevention and criminal justice, specifically the reduction of criminality, more efficient and effective law enforcement and administration of justice, respect for human rights and promotion of the highest standards of fairness, humanity and professional conduct,

    Convinced of the desirability of closer coordination and cooperation among States in combating crime, including drug-related crimes such as money-laundering, illicit arms trade and terrorist crimes, bearing in mind the role that could be played by both the United Nations and regional organizations in this respect,

    Recognizing the urgent need to increase technical cooperation activities in order to assist countries, in particular developing countries and countries with economies in transition, with their efforts in translating United Nations policy guidelines into practice,


    Recalling its relevant resolutions in which it requested the Secretary-General, as a matter of urgency, to provide the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme with sufficient resources for the full implementation of its mandate, in conformity with the high priority attached to the Programme,

    1.	Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General on the progress made in the implementation of General Assembly resolution 52/90 of 12 December 1997;1

    2.	Reaffirms the importance of the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme and the crucial role it has to play in promoting effective action to strengthen international cooperation in crime prevention and criminal justice, in responding to the needs of the international community in the face of both national and transnational criminality and in assisting Member States in achieving the goals of preventing crime within and among States and improving the response to crime;

    3.	Also reaffirms the priority of the Programme, in accordance with the relevant resolutions, and requests the Secretary-General further to strengthen the Programme by providing it with the resources necessary for the full implementation of its mandate, including follow-up action to the Naples Political Declaration and Global Action Plan against Organized Transnational Crime, adopted by the World Ministerial Conference on Organized Transnational Crime, held at Naples, Italy, from 21 to 23 November 1994,2 and to the Ninth United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders, held at Cairo from 29 April to 8 May 1995;3

    4.	Further reaffirms the high priority attached to technical cooperation and advisory services in the field of crime prevention and criminal justice, and stresses the need to continue to improve the operational activities of the Programme, in particular in developing countries and countries with economies in transition, in order to meet the needs of Member States, at their request, for support in crime prevention and criminal justice;

    5.	Encourages the ongoing efforts of the Centre for International Crime Prevention of the Office for Drug Control and Crime Prevention of the Secretariat to obtain executing agency status with the United Nations Development Programme;

    6.	Calls upon States and United Nations funding agencies to make significant financial contributions for the operational activities of the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme, and encourages all States to make voluntary contributions for that purpose to the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Fund, taking into account the activities required for the implementation of the Naples Political Declaration and Global Action Plan against Organized Transnational Crime;

    7.	Expresses its appreciation to non-governmental organizations and other relevant sectors of civil society for their support to the Programme, and encourages them to increase such support;


    8.	Calls upon States to review funding policies for development assistance so as to include crime prevention and criminal justice in such assistance;

    9.	Calls upon all relevant programmes, funds and organizations of the United Nations system, in particular the United Nations Development Programme, the World Bank and other international, regional and national funding agencies, to support technical operational activities in this field;

    10.	Takes note with appreciation of the contributions of the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme to United Nations peacekeeping and special missions, as well as its contributions to the follow-up to those missions, inter alia, through advisory services, and encourages the Secretary-General, as a way of strengthening the rule of law, to recommend the inclusion of the re-establishment and reform of judicial and criminal justice systems in peacekeeping operations;

    11.	Requests the Executive Director of the Office for Drug Control and Crime Prevention to continue to strengthen cooperation between the United Nations International Drug Control Programme and the Centre for International Crime Prevention, in particular in the areas of transnational organized crime and money-laundering;

    12.	Requests the Secretary-General to take all necessary measures to assist the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, as the principal policy-making body in this field, in performing its activities, including cooperation and coordination with other relevant bodies, such as the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, the Commission on Human Rights and the Commission on the Status of Women;

    13.	Calls upon the open-ended intergovernmental ad hoc committee, established on the recommendation of the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, for the purpose of elaborating a comprehensive international convention against transnational organized crime to devote attention to the drafting of the main text of the convention, as well as, as appropriate, of international instruments addressing trafficking in women and children, combating the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition, and illegal trafficking in and transporting of migrants, including by sea;

    14.	Welcomes the efforts undertaken by the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice to improve the strategic management of the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme and to exercise more vigorously its mandated function of resource mobilization, and calls upon the Commission to strengthen further its activities in this direction;

    15.	Also welcomes the decision of the Commission to mainstream a gender perspective into all its activities and its request to the Secretariat that a gender perspective be integrated into all activities of the Centre for International Crime Prevention;

    16.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report on the implementation of the present resolution to the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session.


	85th plenary meeting
	9 December 1998

1  A/53/380.
2  A/49/748, annex, chap. I, sect. A.
3 See A/CONF.169/16/Rev.1.
[COMMENT1]
<<ODS JOB NO>>N9976345E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/53/114<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------


99-76345	/...


99-76345	/...

A/RES/53/
Page 


	A/RES/53/114
	Page 


A/RES/53/
Page 



	/...


	/...

A/RES/53/114
Page 




	A/RES/53/114
	Page 








