[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 23 December 2004
[on the report of the Fifth Committee (A/59/646)]
59/267.	Reports of the Joint Inspection Unit


	The General Assembly,
	Reaffirming its previous resolutions on the Joint Inspection Unit, in particular resolutions 31/192 of 22 December 1976, 50/233 of 7 June 1996, 54/16 of 29 October 1999, 55/230 of 23 December 2000, 56/245 of 24 December 2001, 57/284 A and B of 20 December 2002 and 58/286 of 8 April 2004,
	Having considered the report of the Joint Inspection Unit for 2003,1 the note by the Secretary-General transmitting the programme of work of the Joint Inspection Unit for 20042 and the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the recommendations of the Joint Inspection Unit,3
	Noting with appreciation the recent adoption by the Joint Inspection Unit of internal working procedures and mechanisms to complement its standards and guidelines, which are aimed at improving the quality and impact of the Unit's activities,
	Recognizing that in order for the Unit to further improve its effectiveness, the provisions of the statute of the Unit should be fully implemented,
	1.	Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Joint Inspection Unit
for 2003;1
	2.	Takes note of the note by the Secretary-General transmitting the programme of work of the Unit for 2004;2
	3.	Also takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the recommendations of the Unit;3
	4.	Decides to discontinue the requirement for the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the recommendations of the Unit;
	5.	Considers that the implementation in full of the provisions of the statute of the Unit should contribute to the enhancement of its role and an increase in the effectiveness of its activities;
	6.	Urges Member States requested to propose candidates for membership in the Unit to strictly adhere to the qualifications and experience outlined in article 2, paragraph 1, of the statute;
	7.	Stresses the importance of ensuring that candidates have experience in at least one of the fields illustrated as follows: oversight, audit, inspection, investigation, evaluation, finance, project evaluation, programme evaluation, human resources management, management, public administration, monitoring and/or programme performance, as well as knowledge of the United Nations system and its role in international relations;
	8.	Invites the President of the General Assembly to ensure the full implementation of the procedures and mechanisms for reviewing the qualifications of proposed candidates as outlined in article 3, paragraph 2, of the statute of the Unit, including through joint consultations with the President of the Economic and Social Council and the Chairman of the United Nations System Chief Executives Board for Coordination,4 as well as drawing, as appropriate, on relevant expertise from expert and intergovernmental bodies concerned with budgetary and human resources matters, and with consultations with the States concerned, after which the President of the Assembly submits the list of such candidates to the Assembly for appointment;
	9.	Also invites the President of the General Assembly to review the procedures followed by the Assembly for the appointment of inspectors, with a view to enhancing the efficiency of the application of article 3, paragraph 2, of the statute, bearing in mind the procedures followed for the selection of members of other expert bodies and to report to the Assembly at the first part of its resumed sixtieth session for its decision, as appropriate;
	10.	Reaffirms article 11, paragraph 2, of the statute of the Unit, and requests that the Unit, as a whole, also take responsibility in the exercise of its collective wisdom with regard to all its reports, notes and recommendations, in order to improve the effectiveness of the Unit;
	11.	Re-emphasizes paragraph 9 of its resolution 56/245;
	12.	Decides that the Unit shall perform its functions and responsibilities strictly in accordance with the provisions of its statute;
	13.	Also decides that the programme of work of the Unit shall be collectively approved, providing the rationale for choice as well as the relevance of the envisaged outcome to improving management and methods and promoting greater coordination between organizations;
	14.	Affirms that, in the implementation of article 18 of the statute of the Unit, the Chair shall be responsible for overseeing the Unit's programme of work, including, in the event of disagreement, the division of assignments, and for enforcing the internal working procedures of the Unit to ensure, through collective responsibility, the quality of its reports;
	15.	Welcomes the peer review system established by the Unit, and decides that if, in the opinion of the majority of the inspectors, the report in question does not meet the established quality standards, the Chair shall reflect such views and the reasons therefor in the introduction to the report;
	16.	Emphasizes the desirability of continuity in the term of office of the Chair and Vice-Chair, and calls upon the Unit to bear this in mind in implementing article 18 of the statute, so as to re-elect the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman for overlapping terms, thereby balancing the need for institutional memory and reasonable rotation;
	17.	Also emphasizes the need to assess resource management from a system-wide perspective, including the contribution of, and coordination between, organizations;
	18.	Decides that the Unit shall mainly focus on identifying means to improve management and to ensure that optimum use is made of available resources, as stipulated in article 5, paragraphs 1 to 3, of the statute, and to this end the Unit will set out management criteria and methods for assessment of management performance and effectiveness relevant to participating organizations;
	19.	Also decides that the Unit shall include, in its annual reports, information on implementation and the results achieved by organizations in respect of their follow-up to the recommendations of the Unit, as endorsed by their legislative bodies, and the arrangements put in place by participating organizations for reporting thereon;
	20.	Further decides that the Unit, as part of its focus on management issues, should assess the development and application in participating organizations of the principle of accountability in its relevant reports;
	21.	Decides that the Unit shall undertake inspections with a sharp focus on the areas stipulated in article 5, paragraphs 1 to 3, of the statute, bearing in mind paragraphs 18 and 20 above;
	22.	Invites the Committee for Programme and Coordination, in performing its programmatic, coordination, monitoring and evaluation functions, as contained in its mandate, to consider relevant reports of the Unit;
	23.	Requests the Secretary-General to ensure that the staff recruited according to article 19 of the statute fully meet the qualifications and have proven experience in specific areas required to assist the Unit in the fulfilment of its functions, namely, inspection, investigation and evaluation;
	24.	Reaffirms that the working languages of the General Assembly are those of the Unit, in application of article 51 of the rules of procedure of the Assembly, and also reaffirms that the working languages of the Secretariat of the United Nations are those of the secretariat of the Unit, in application of Assembly resolution 2 (I) of 1 February 1946;
	25.	Decides to continue providing translation in all official languages for the reports of the Unit and also to provide interpretation, as necessary, within existing resources;
	26.	Reaffirms its request to the Secretariat and all participating organizations to facilitate the work of the Unit, including, in particular, through offering full access to all relevant information, as required by the Unit;
	27.	Also reaffirms its request to the executive heads of the participating organizations that have not yet done so to take the steps necessary to facilitate the consideration of and action on the system of follow-up to the reports of the Unit, and invites the legislative organs concerned to consider the system and take action in that regard;
	28.	Emphasizes the need to ensure respect for the separate and distinct roles and functions of external and internal oversight mechanisms and also to strengthen the external oversight mechanisms;
	29.	Decides to consider the implementation of the provisions of the present resolution, which are aimed at increasing the effectiveness of the Unit, at its sixty-first session.

76th plenary meeting
23 December 2004
1 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 34 (A/59/34). 
2 A/59/75.
3 A/59/349.
4 Formerly known as the Administrative Committee on Coordination.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0449228E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/59/267<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/59/267General AssemblyDistr.: General
7 March 2005Fifty-ninth session
Agenda item 115

04-49228

A/RES/59/267

A/RES/59/267

4

3

