[hj1]UNITED									A
NATIONS



             General Assembly


                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/54/131
                                                                          28 January 2000

                                                                          



Fifty-fourth session
Agenda item 107


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/54/596)]

54/131.	Strengthening the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme, in particular its technical cooperation capacity

    The General Assembly,

    Recalling its resolution 46/152 of 18 December 1991 on the creation of an effective United Nations crime prevention and criminal justice programme, in which it approved the statement of principles and programme of action annexed to that resolution,

    Emphasizing the role of the United Nations in the field of crime prevention and criminal justice, specifically the reduction of criminality, more efficient and effective law enforcement and administration of justice, respect for human rights and promotion of the highest standards of fairness, humanity and professional conduct, 

    Convinced of the desirability of closer coordination and cooperation among States in combating crime, including drug-related crimes such as money-laundering, illicit arms trade and terrorist crimes, bearing in mind the role that could be played by both the United Nations and regional organizations in this respect,

    Recognizing the urgent need to increase technical cooperation activities to assist countries, in particular developing countries and countries with economies in transition, with their efforts in translating United Nations policy guidelines into practice,

    Recalling its relevant resolutions in which it requested the Secretary-General, as a matter of urgency, to provide the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme with sufficient resources for the full implementation of its mandate, in conformity with the high priority attached to the Programme,


    1.	Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General on the progress made in the implementation of General Assembly resolution 53/114 of 9 December 1998;1

    2.	Reaffirms the importance of the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme in promoting effective action to strengthen international cooperation in crime prevention and criminal justice, in responding to the needs of the international community in the face of both national and transnational criminality and in assisting Member States in achieving the goals of preventing crime within and among States and improving the response to crime;

    3.	Also reaffirms the role of the Centre for International Crime Prevention of the Office for Drug Control and Crime Prevention of the Secretariat in providing to Member States, upon request, technical cooperation, advisory services and other forms of assistance in the field of crime prevention and criminal justice, including in the area of prevention and control of organized crime;

    4.	Notes the programme of work of the Centre, including the launching of three global programmes addressing, respectively, trafficking in human beings, corruption and organized crime, formulated on the basis of close consultations with Member States and review by the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, and calls on the Secretary-General to strengthen further the Centre by providing it with the resources necessary for the full implementation of its mandate;

    5.	Supports the high priority given to technical cooperation and advisory services in the field of crime prevention and criminal justice, including in the area of prevention and control of transnational organized crime, and stresses the need to enhance the operational activities of the Centre to assist, in particular, developing countries and countries with economies in transition;

    6.	Welcomes the increased number of technical assistance projects in the field of juvenile justice, reflecting an increased awareness among Member States of the importance of juvenile justice reform in establishing and maintaining stable societies and the rule of law;

    7.	Invites all States to support, through voluntary contributions to the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Fund, the operational activities of the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme;

    8.	Encourages relevant programmes, funds and organizations of the United Nations system, in particular the United Nations Development Programme, international financial institutions, in particular the World Bank, and regional and national funding agencies to support the technical operational activities of the Centre;

    9.	Urges States and funding agencies to review, as appropriate, their funding policies for development assistance and to include a crime prevention and criminal justice component in such assistance;

    10.	Welcomes the efforts undertaken by the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice to exercise more vigorously its mandated function of resource mobilization, and calls upon the Commission to strengthen further its activities in this direction;


    11.	Expresses its appreciation to non-governmental organizations and other relevant sectors of civil society for their support to the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme;

    12.	Welcomes the efforts of the Executive Director of the Office for Drug Control and Crime Prevention to enhance the synergies between the United Nations International Drug Control Programme and the Centre for International Crime Prevention, in conformity with the reform proposals of the Secretary-General;

    13.	Requests the Secretary-General to take all necessary measures to assist the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, as the principal policy-making body in this field, in performing its activities, including cooperation and coordination with other relevant bodies, such as the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, the Commission on Human Rights, the Commission on the Status of Women and the Commission for Social Development;	

    14.	Reaffirms the high priority attached to the elaboration of a comprehensive convention against transnational organized crime and additional international instruments addressing trafficking in persons, especially women and children, combating the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition, and smuggling of migrants by land, air and sea, notes the progress achieved by the Ad Hoc Committee on the Elaboration of a Convention against Transnational Organized Crime in this regard, and calls upon Member States to make all possible efforts to ensure the rapid development and conclusion of the convention and the protocols thereto;

    15.	Welcomes the decision of the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice to mainstream a gender perspective into its activities and its request to the Secretariat that a gender perspective be integrated into all activities of the Centre;

    16.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report on the implementation of the present resolution to the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session.


	 83rd plenary meeting
	17 December 1999

1 A/54/289.
[hj1]
<<ODS JOB NO>>N0024723E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/54/131<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------


00 24723	/...


00 24723	/...

A/RES/53/
Page 


	A/RES/53/131
	Page 


A/RES/53/
Page 



	/...


	/...

A/RES/54/131
Page 




	A/RES/53/131
	Page 








