[Start1]

Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 19 December 2016
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/71/486)]
71/210.	Promoting the implementation of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Alternative Development


	The General Assembly,
	Reaffirming the Political Declaration adopted by the General Assembly at its twentieth special session1 and the Action Plan on International Cooperation on the Eradication of Illicit Drug Crops and on Alternative Development,2
	Reaffirming also the commitments contained in the Political Declaration and Plan of Action on International Cooperation towards an Integrated and Balanced Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem,3 adopted at the high-level segment of the fifty-second session of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs and by the General Assembly in its resolution 64/182 of 18 December 2009, as well as the joint ministerial statement of the 2014 high-level review by the Commission of the implementation by Member States of the Political Declaration and Plan of Action, adopted at the high-level segment of the fifty-seventh session of the Commission,4
	Recalling its resolution 68/196 of 18 December 2013, in which it adopted the United Nations Guiding Principles on Alternative Development and encouraged Member States, international organizations, international financial institutions, entities and other relevant stakeholders to take into account the Guiding Principles when designing and implementing alternative development programmes, including, as appropriate, preventive alternative development programmes,
	Recalling also Commission on Narcotic Drugs resolutions 52/6 of 20 March 2009,3 53/6 of 12 March 2010,5 54/4 of 25 March 2011,6 55/4 of 16 March 2012,7 57/1 of 21 March 20144 and 58/4 of 17 March 2015,8
	Welcoming the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development,9 and stressing that the implementation of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Alternative Development will contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals contained in the 2030 Agenda,
	Taking note of the outcome of the international seminar/workshop on the implementation of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Alternative Development and the Second International Conference on Alternative Development,10 which includes conclusions and recommendations drawn from the field visits, the seminar/workshop and the high-level International Conference, and noting in particular the alternative development projects, as seen in the field visits, focused on enhancing individual and community resilience and recognized as an example of the sufficiency economy philosophy of the King of Thailand,
	Reaffirming that alternative development is an important, lawful, viable and sustainable alternative to the illicit cultivation of drug crops, that it is an effective measure to counter the world drug problem and other drug-related crime challenges and that it is one of the key components of policies and programmes for reducing illicit drug production,
	Expressing concern that the illicit cultivation of drug crops and illicit drug production, manufacture, distribution and trafficking remain major challenges in countering the world drug problem, and recognizing the need to strengthen sustainable crop control strategies that include alternative development, eradication and law enforcement measures, for the purpose of preventing and reducing significantly and measurably the illicit cultivation of drug crops, and the need to intensify joint efforts at the national, regional and international levels in a more comprehensive manner, in accordance with the principle of common and shared responsibility, including by means of appropriate preventive tools and measures, enhanced and better-coordinated financial and technical assistance and action-oriented programmes, in order to tackle those challenges,
	Noting with concern that overall financial support for alternative development projects and programmes, including, as appropriate, preventive alternative development projects and programmes, has accounted for only a minor share of official development assistance and has reached only a minor percentage of communities and households involved in illicit drug crop cultivation at the global level,
	1.	Takes note with appreciation of the outcome of the international seminar/workshop and the Second International Conference on Alternative Development, held in Chiang Rai, Chiang Mai and Bangkok, Thailand, and Shan State, Myanmar, from 19 to 24 November 2015 and hosted by the Government of Thailand, in collaboration with the Government of Germany, the Government of Myanmar and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime,10 as an input to continued discussions on and enhanced implementation of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Alternative Development,11 in accordance with national legislation;
	2.	Reaffirms, as highlighted in the United Nations Guiding Principles on Alternative Development, that alternative development, as an integral component of policies and programmes for reducing drug production, is an important, viable and sustainable option for preventing, eliminating or significantly and measurably reducing the illicit cultivation of crops used for the production and manufacture of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances through tackling poverty and providing livelihood opportunities;
	3.	Urges Member States affected by or at risk of illicit crop cultivation to consider integrating comprehensive and sustainable alternative development, including, as appropriate, preventive alternative development, into national development policies and strategies, as appropriate, to address illicit crop cultivation and its related socioeconomic factors, provide sustainable alternative livelihoods and significantly contribute to the building of inclusive and just societies in order to reduce inequality within and among countries;
	4.	Urges Member States, when formulating and implementing comprehensive and sustainable alternative development strategies and policies, including, as appropriate, preventive alternative development strategies and policies, to take into account the specific needs of the communities and groups affected by the illicit cultivation of crops used for drug production and manufacture, within the broader framework of national policies;
	5.	Stresses that, when designing and implementing comprehensive and sustainable alternative development programmes and projects, including, as appropriate, preventive alternative development programmes and projects, the focus should be on empowering and encouraging ownership by local communities, including women, children and young people, taking into account their specific needs, and on strengthening local capacities, as ensuring the effective cooperation of all stakeholders in the entire alternative development process is crucial for the success of alternative development;
	6.	Also stresses that comprehensive and sustainable alternative development, as one of the tools available for tackling the world drug problem, increases the State's presence, builds trust between communities and government, strengthens local governance and institutions, promotes peaceful and inclusive societies and, under Sustainable Development Goal 16, includes the promotion of the rule of law;
	7.	Encourages further discussions on the relationship and potential links between alternative development and the promotion of the rule of law by individuals and communities, as well as on the wide range of challenges affecting the livelihoods and well-being of people, in order to further develop measures to address the root causes of such challenges;
	8.	Encourages Member States to ensure the proper and coordinated sequencing of development interventions when designing alternative development programmes;
	9.	Stresses that access to productive land and land rights, such as legal titles to land for farmers and local communities, should be promoted and protected in the implementation of comprehensive and sustainable alternative development programmes, in a manner that is consistent with domestic law and regulations as well as with the full participation of and in consultation with local communities;
	10.	Emphasizes that the marketability of products stemming from alternative development programmes should be assessed before implementing such programmes and, where applicable, alternative development products should be aimed at creating value-added chains to enable target communities to obtain higher incomes in order to support sustainable livelihoods and substitute the income generated from illicit crop cultivation;
	11.	Encourages the international community, including civil society, the scientific community and academia, to work with affected communities to develop recommendations focusing on specific alternative development strategies that take into account demographic, cultural, social and geographical conditions and include ideas on supporting and promoting new products;
	12.	Calls upon Member States to apply the United Nations Guiding Principles on Alternative Development when designing, implementing and evaluating alternative development programmes and projects, including, as appropriate, preventive alternative development programmes and projects, and calls upon Member States with experience in this area to share outcomes, assessments of implemented projects and lessons learned, thereby contributing to the dissemination and application of the Guiding Principles;
	13.	Urges Member States to sustain political will and a long-term commitment with regard to implementing alternative development programmes and strategies and to continue to engage in awareness programmes and in dialogue and cooperation with all relevant stakeholders;
	14.	Urges relevant international financial institutions, United Nations organizations, non-governmental organizations and the private sector to increase their rural development support for regions and populations affected by or at risk of the illicit cultivation of drug crops through long-term and flexible funding, and encourages States, to the extent possible, to remain strongly committed to financing alternative development programmes, including, as appropriate, preventive alternative development programmes;
	15.	Encourages Member States to strengthen intragovernmental coordination when designing and implementing alternative development projects and programmes;
	16.	Encourages all relevant United Nations entities and specialized agencies to further increase their interaction with the Commission on Narcotic Drugs and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime in order to support Member States in effectively implementing alternative development programmes, including, as appropriate, preventive alternative development programmes, with a view to further enhancing coherence and coordination within the United Nations system;
	17.	Encourages development agencies, donors and financial institutions, the private sector, civil society and academia to share information, experiences and best practices, promote research and increase efforts on the promotion of alternative development, including, as appropriate, preventive alternative development;
	18.	Recognizes that more research is needed to better understand and identify factors contributing to the emergence of illicit crop cultivation and to improve impact assessments of alternative development programmes;
	19.	Affirms that, in addition to estimates of illicit cultivation and other illicit activities related to the world drug problem, indicators related to human development, socioeconomic conditions, rural development and the alleviation of poverty, as well as institutional and environmental indicators, should be used when assessing alternative development programmes in order to ensure that the outcomes are in line with national and international development objectives, including the Sustainable Development Goals, and that they reflect accountable use of donor funds and truly benefit affected communities;
	20.	Calls upon Member States and other donors to consider providing long-term support to alternative development programmes and projects, including, as appropriate, preventive alternative development programmes and projects, that target the illicit cultivation of drug crops, in order to contribute to the sustainability of social and economic development and poverty eradication, including through enhanced development-oriented approaches that implement measures for rural development, strengthen local governments and institutions, improve infrastructure, including the provision of public services such as water, energy, health and education in areas acutely impacted by the illicit cultivation of drug crops, promote the participation of local communities, enhance the empowerment of people and strengthen the resilience of communities;
	21.	Encourages Member States to maintain and strengthen international cooperation to support comprehensive and sustainable alternative development programmes, including, as appropriate, preventive alternative development programmes, as an essential part of successful crop control strategies, in order to increase the positive outcomes of such programmes, especially in areas affected by or at risk of the illicit cultivation of crops used for the production of narcotic drugs, taking into account the United Nations Guiding Principles on Alternative Development;
	22.	Encourages Member States with extensive expertise in alternative development, including, as appropriate, preventive alternative development, to continue to share best practices, upon request, promote research to better understand factors contributing to illicit crop cultivation and foster and strengthen international cooperation, including cross-continental, interregional, subregional and regional technical cooperation on integral and sustainable alternative development, which includes in some cases preventive alternative development;
	23.	Invites Member States and other donors to provide extrabudgetary resources for the purposes described above, in accordance with the rules and procedures of the United Nations.
65th plenary meeting
19 December 2016

1 Resolution S-20/2, annex.
2 Resolution S-20/4 E.
3 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2009, Supplement No. 8 (E/2009/28), chap. I, sect. C.
4 Ibid., 2014, Supplement No. 8 (E/2014/28), chap. I, sect. C.
5 Ibid., 2010, Supplement No. 8 (E/2010/28), chap. I, sect. C.
6 Ibid., 2011, Supplement No. 8 (E/2011/28), chap. I, sect. C. 
7 Ibid., 2012, Supplement No. 8 (E/2012/28), chap. I, sect. B. 
8 Ibid., 2015, Supplement No. 8 (E/2015/28), chap. I, sect. C. 
9 Resolution 70/1.
10 E/CN.7/2016/13, annex.
11 Resolution 68/196, annex.
[Start1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1645609E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/71/210<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

5
    

5

United NationsA/RES/71/210General AssemblyDistr.: General
23 January 2017Seventy-first session
Agenda item 107

16-22583 (E)
*1622583*Please recycle 

A/RES/71/210Promoting the implementation of the United Nations
Guiding Principles on Alternative Development

Promoting the implementation of the United Nations
Guiding Principles on Alternative DevelopmentA/RES/71/210

4/5

5/5

