[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 21 December 2012
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/67/438)]
67/216.	Implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and strengthening of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)
	The General Assembly,
	Recalling the outcomes of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements1 and of the second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II),2
	Recalling also relevant resolutions of the General Assembly on the implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and strengthening of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat), as well as relevant decisions and resolutions of the Economic and Social Council on the coordinated implementation of the Habitat Agenda, 
	Reaffirming the outcome document, entitled "The future we want", of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, from 20 to 22 June 2012,3
	Recognizing the progress made in meeting and even surpassing Millennium Development Goal 7, target 11, while noting that slums continue to be a global challenge,
	Acknowledging that, while significant progress has been made in implementing the Istanbul Declaration on Human Settlements4 and the twin goals of the Habitat Agenda,5 challenges remain, such as, inter alia, the continuing increase in the number of slum dwellers in the world, the negative impact of environmental degradation, including climate change, desertification and loss of biodiversity, on human settlements and the need to reduce disaster risks and build resilience to disasters in urban settlements,
	Cognizant of the fact that these challenges may hinder the work towards improving the quality of human settlements, including the living and working conditions of both urban and rural dwellers, and achieving a safe and healthy living environment for all, 
	Recognizing that cities are engines of economic growth and that, if they are well planned and developed, including through integrated planning and management approaches, they can promote economically, socially and environmentally sustainable societies,
	Recalling paragraphs 134 to 137 of the outcome document of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development on sustainable cities and human settlements,
	Noting the ongoing review of the governance structure of UN-Habitat, which aims to improve its transparency, accountability, efficiency and effectiveness, 
	Recognizing that the World Urban Forum is the foremost global arena for interaction among policymakers, local government leaders, non-governmental stakeholders and expert practitioners in the field of human settlements, and expressing its appreciation to the Government of Italy and the city of Naples for hosting the sixth session of the Forum from 1 to 6 September 2012,
	Recalling its resolutions 64/207 of 21 December 2009, 65/165 of 20 December 2010 and 66/207 of 22 December 2011, which addressed the convening in 2016 of a follow-up conference to Habitat II, Habitat III, 
	1.	Takes note of the reports of the Secretary-General on the coordinated implementation of the Habitat Agenda6 and on the implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and strengthening of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat);7
	2.	Encourages giving appropriate consideration to sustainable urbanization in the elaboration of the post-2015 United Nations development agenda; 
	3.	Emphasizes the importance of ensuring consistency and coherence in the deliberations of the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council on agenda items related to the work of UN-Habitat; 
	4.	Reaffirms its decision to convene in 2016 a third United Nations conference on housing and sustainable urban development (Habitat III), welcomes the offer of the Government of Turkey to host the conference in Istanbul, and invites participation in the conference at the highest possible level; 
	5.	Welcomes the appointment, by the Secretary-General, of the Executive Director of UN-Habitat to serve as Secretary-General of the conference and to act as focal point on behalf of the United Nations system;
	6.	Decides that:
	(a)	The objective of the conference will be to secure renewed political commitment for sustainable urban development, assessing accomplishments to date, addressing poverty and identifying and addressing new and emerging challenges, and that the focus of the conference will include, but will not be limited to, the theme "Sustainable urban development: the future of urbanization", to be discussed and refined during the preparatory process; 
	(b)	The conference will result in a concise, focused, forward-looking and action-oriented outcome document, which shall reinvigorate the global commitment to and support for housing and sustainable urban development and the implementation of a "New Urban Agenda"; 
	(c)	The conference and its preparatory process should take into account and build upon the principles and gains achieved through the implementation of the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development,8 Agenda 21,9 the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21,10 the Habitat Agenda,5 the Declaration on Cities and Other Human Settlements in the New Millennium11 and the relevant internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration,12 the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development13 and the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development (Johannesburg Plan of Implementation),14 as well as the outcome document of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, entitled "The future we want";3 
	7.	Also decides to establish a preparatory committee to carry out the preparations for the conference; 
	8.	Further decides that the conference and its Preparatory Committee shall be open to all States Members of the United Nations and members of specialized agencies and of the International Atomic Energy Agency;
	9.	Decides, while remaining mindful of the need to carry out the conference and the preparatory process in the most inclusive, efficient, effective and improved manner, that: 
	(a)	The Preparatory Committee will meet three times before the opening of the conference; 
	(b)	The first meeting of the Preparatory Committee will be held in New York, for a period of two days, during the sixty-ninth session of the General Assembly; 
	(c)	The second meeting of the Preparatory Committee will be held in Nairobi in 2015, for a period of three days, taking full advantage of the twenty-fifth session of the Governing Council of UN-Habitat; 
	(d)	The venue and duration of the third and final Preparatory Committee meeting will be considered by the General Assembly no later than at its sixty-ninth session, before the end of 2014; 
	(e)	The Preparatory Committee, when considering the rules of procedure of the Committee and the provisional rules of procedure of the conference, will take into consideration the rules of procedure of Habitat II endorsed by the General Assembly in its resolution 50/100 of 20 December 1995 and the established practice of the Assembly;
	10.	Also decides to consider the final dates, format and organizational aspects of the conference no later than at its sixty-ninth session, before the end of 2014; 
	11.	Encourages effective contributions from and the active participation of all relevant stakeholders, including local governments, major groups as identified in Agenda 21, the relevant United Nations funds and programmes, the regional commissions and specialized agencies, the international financial institutions and other Habitat Agenda partners, at all stages of the preparatory process and at the conference itself, and requests the Secretary-General of the conference to make proposals to the Preparatory Committee on improved participation of local authorities and other stakeholders in the preparatory process and the conference itself, building on the positive experience enabled by the rules and procedures of the Governing Council of UN-Habitat and the inclusive engagement modalities of Habitat II;
	12.	Encourages stakeholders gathered at the seventh session of the World Urban Forum, as well as at the regular ministerial conferences on housing and urban development and other relevant expert group meetings, to provide inputs and to contribute as appropriate to the process leading to the conference; 
	13.	Decides to establish a trust fund for the conference, and in this regard:
	(a)	Urges international and bilateral donors as well as the private sector, financial institutions, foundations and other donors in a position to do so to support the preparations for the conference through voluntary contributions to the trust fund and to support the participation of representatives of developing countries in the Preparatory Committee meetings and in the conference itself; 
	(b)	Invites voluntary contributions to support the participation of Habitat Agenda partners in the Preparatory Committee meetings; 
	(c)	Requests the Secretary-General of the conference, when using the resources of the trust fund, to prioritize the coverage of economy-class air tickets, the daily subsistence allowance and terminal expenses, and to report on the use of the trust fund to the Governing Council of UN-Habitat at its twenty-fifth session; 
	14.	Requests the Secretary-General of the conference to prepare, using the expertise of the United Nations system, a proposal, for consideration by the Governing Council of UN-Habitat at its twenty-fourth session, on how best to provide inputs for and support to the preparatory process of the conference in the most inclusive, efficient, effective and improved manner, and to proceed accordingly; 
	15.	Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations to provide, in the most efficient and cost-effective manner, all appropriate support to the Secretary-General of the conference and to the work of the preparatory process and the conference, while promoting inter-agency support to the maximum possible extent; 
	16.	Notes with appreciation the completion of the organizational review undertaken by the Executive Director of UN-Habitat; 
	17. 	Invites the Executive Director of UN-Habitat to present to the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, as appropriate, the outcomes of the governance review process, for consideration by the Assembly at its sixty-eighth session, and encourages the Executive Director and the Committee of Permanent Representatives to continue their efforts to improve the efficiency, effectiveness, transparency and accountability of UN-Habitat; 
	18.	Welcomes the progress in the elaboration of the strategic plan for the period 2014-2019 and its focus areas; 
	19.	Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations to submit to the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session a report on the implementation of the present resolution, including an update on progress made in the preparations for the conference; 
	20.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-eighth session the item entitled "Implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and strengthening of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)".

61st plenary meeting
21 December 2012

1 See Report of Habitat: United Nations Conference on Human Settlements, Vancouver, 
31 May-11 June 1976 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.76.IV.7 and corrigendum).
2 See Report of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II), Istanbul, 
3-14 June 1996 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.97.IV.6).
3 Resolution 66/288, annex.
4 Report of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II), Istanbul, 3-14 June 1996 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.97.IV.6), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
5 Ibid., annex II.
6 E/2012/65.
7 A/67/263.
8 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 
3-14 June 1992, vol. I, Resolutions Adopted by the Conference (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum), resolution 1, annex I.
9 Ibid., annex II.
10 Resolution S-19/2, annex.
11 Resolution S-25/2, annex.
12 Resolution 55/2.
13 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 
26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
14 Ibid., resolution 2, annex.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1249156E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/67/216<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/67/216General AssemblyDistr.: General
 20 March 2013Sixty-seventh session
Agenda item 21

12-49156
*1249156*Please recycle 

A/RES/67/216Implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference
 on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and strengthening of the
 United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)

Implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference 
on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and strengthening of the 
United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)A/RES/67/216

4/5

5/5

