[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 20 December 2013
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/68/438/Add.7)]
68/215.	Report of the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme on its first universal session and the implementation of section IV.C, entitled "Environmental pillar in the context of sustainable development", of the outcome document of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development
	The General Assembly, 
	Reaffirming the mandate contained in its resolution 2997 (XXVII) of 15 December 1972, by which it established the United Nations Environment Programme, and other relevant resolutions that reinforce its mandate, as well as the 1997 Nairobi Declaration on the Role and Mandate of the United Nations Environment Programme of 7 February 1997,1 the Malmö Ministerial Declaration of 31 May 20002 and the Nusa Dua Declaration of 26 February 2010,3
	Reaffirming also its commitment to strengthening the role of the United Nations Environment Programme as the leading global environmental authority that sets the global environmental agenda, promotes the coherent implementation of the environmental dimension of sustainable development within the United Nations system and serves as an authoritative advocate for the global environment,
	Recalling its resolution 67/213 of 21 December 2012 on the report of the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme on its twelfth special session and the implementation of section IV.C, entitled "Environmental pillar in the context of sustainable development", of the outcome document of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, 
	Recalling also its resolution 67/251 of 13 March 2013 on the change of the designation of the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme,
	Reaffirming the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development4 and its principles,
	Taking into account Agenda 215 and the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development (Johannesburg Plan of Implementation),6
	Recalling the 2005 World Summit Outcome,7
	Recalling also the Bali Strategic Plan for Technology Support and Capacity-building,8
	Committed to strengthening international environmental governance within the context of the institutional framework for sustainable development in order to promote a balanced integration of the economic, social and environmental dimensions of sustainable development as well as coordination within the United Nations system,
	Committed also to enhancing the voice of the United Nations Environment Programme and its ability to fulfil its coordination mandate within the United Nations system by strengthening its engagement in key United Nations coordination bodies and empowering it to lead efforts to formulate United Nations system-wide strategies on the environment,
	Recalling the outcome document of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, held from 20 to 22 June 2012 in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, entitled "The future we want",9 in which the General Assembly was invited to adopt, at its sixty-seventh session, a resolution strengthening and upgrading the United Nations Environment Programme in the manner outlined in paragraph 88, subparagraphs (a) to (h), of the outcome document, 
	Reiterating the need for secure, stable, adequate and predictable financial resources for the United Nations Environment Programme, and in accordance with resolution 2997 (XXVII) underlining the need to consider the adequate reflection of all the administrative and management costs of the Programme in the context of the United Nations regular budget,
	1.	Welcomes the convening of the first universal session of the Governing Council/Global Ministerial Environment Forum of the United Nations Environment Programme in Nairobi from 18 to 22 February 2013;
	2.	Takes note of the report of the Governing Council/Global Ministerial Environment Forum10 and the decisions contained therein; 
	3.	Looks forward to the first session of the United Nations Environment Assembly of the United Nations Environment Programme, to be held in June 2014;
	4.	Takes note of decision 27/2 of 22 February 2013, adopted by the Governing Council at its first universal session, on the implementation of paragraph 88 of the outcome document of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development,11 as endorsed by the General Assembly in its resolution 66/288 of 27 July 2012;
	5.	Welcomes the request of the Governing Council to the Executive Director of the United Nations Environment Programme to continue the current emphasis on the achievement of results for the achievement of programme objectives; 
	6.	Takes note of decision 27/13 of 22 February 2013, adopted by the Governing Council at its first universal session, on the proposed medium-term strategy for the period 2014-2017 and biennial programme of work and budget for 2014-2015;11
	7.	Also takes note of the ongoing discussions at the United Nations Environment Assembly on its rules of procedure;
	8.	Welcomes the continued support of the United Nations Environment Programme to the United Nations system in the integrated and coordinated implementation of and follow-up to the outcomes of all major United Nations conferences and summits in the economic, social, environmental and related fields;
	9.	Also welcomes the establishment of the 10-member board of the 10-year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and production patterns, and recalls the decision that the United Nations Environment Programme would serve as the secretariat of the 10-year framework; 
	10.	Reiterates the continuing need for the United Nations Environment Programme to conduct up-to-date, comprehensive, scientifically based and policy-relevant global environmental assessments, in close consultation with Member States, in order to support decision-making processes at all levels; 
	11.	Takes note of decision 27/11 of 22 February 2013, adopted by the Governing Council at its first universal session, on the state of the environment and contribution of the United Nations Environment Programme to meeting substantive environmental challenges,11 and in this regard welcomes:
	(a)	The Governing Council's request to the Executive Director to strengthen the policy relevance of the Global Environment Outlook reports, and the Governing Council's request to the Executive Director related to the objectives, scope and process for the next Global Environment Outlook assessment;
	(b)	Inputs by the Programme, as the leading global environmental authority, on the environmental dimension of sustainable development, including in the elaboration of the post-2015 development agenda, as well as in discussions on the scope and modalities of a global sustainable development report;
	(c)	The proposal in the programme of work for 2014-2015 for a gender and environment outlook that would use social science information and gender-sensitive indicators to review gender-environment links and guide policy actions towards gender equality;
	12.	Reiterates the importance of the Nairobi headquarters location of the United Nations Environment Programme, and requests the Secretary-General to keep the resource needs of the Programme and the United Nations Office at Nairobi under review so as to permit the delivery, in an effective manner, of necessary services to the Programme and to the other United Nations organizations and entities in Nairobi;
	13.	Notes the commitment of the governing body of the United Nations Environment Programme to progressively consolidate headquarters functions of the Programme in Nairobi and, in this context, of the request of the governing body of the Programme to the Executive Director to present a report to the governing body at its next session and to include recommendations in the programme of work for the period 2016-2017 to be acted upon and implemented in a timely manner, and also takes note of the decision of the governing body of the Programme to strengthen the Programme's regional presence in order to assist countries in the implementation of their national environmental programmes, policies and plans and, in this regard, of the requests of the governing body of the Programme to the Executive Director to increase the Programme's participation in United Nations country teams;
	14.	Also notes the continued support of the Executive Director of the United Nations Environment Programme for the full and effective participation of representatives of developing countries in the United Nations Environment Assembly of the Programme, and welcomes the commitment of the United Nations Environment Assembly in this regard;
	15.	Reiterates that capacity-building and technology support to developing countries in environment-related fields are important components of the work of the United Nations Environment Programme, and in this regard calls for the continued and focused implementation of the Bali Strategic Plan for Technology Support and Capacity-building,8 adopted by the Programme;
	16.	Recalls the decision contained in paragraph 88 (b) of the outcome document of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, endorsed by the General Assembly in its resolution 66/288, that the United Nations Environment Programme have secure, stable, adequate and increased financial resources from the regular budget of the United Nations and voluntary contributions to fulfil the mandate of the Programme;
	17.	Notes the inclusion by the Secretary-General in the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2014-2015 of regular budget resources for the revised programme of work of the United Nations Environment Programme, and requests the Secretary-General to maintain the resource needs of the Programme under review;
	18.	Urges donors, and other stakeholders in a position to do so, to increase voluntary funding to the United Nations Environment Programme, including to the Environment Fund;
	19.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-ninth session, under the item entitled "Sustainable development", a sub-item entitled "Report of the United Nations Environment Assembly of the United Nations Environment Programme".

71st plenary meeting
20 December 2013

1 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-second Session, Supplement No. 25 (A/52/25), annex, decision 19/1, annex.
2 Ibid., Fifty-fifth Session, Supplement No. 25 (A/55/25), annex I, decision SS.VI/1, annex.
3 Ibid., Sixty-fifth Session, Supplement No. 25 (A/65/25), annex I, decision SS.XI/9.
4 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992, vol. I, Resolutions Adopted by the Conference (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum), resolution 1, annex I.
5 Ibid., annex II.
6 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 2, annex.
7 Resolution 60/1.
8 United Nations Environment Programme, document UNEP/GC.23/6/Add.1 and Corr.1, annex.
9 Resolution 66/288, annex. 
10 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 25 (A/68/25).
11 Ibid., annex.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1345235E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/68/215<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

1
    

1

United NationsA/RES/68/215General AssemblyDistr.: General
5 February 2014Sixty-eighth session
Agenda item 19 (g)

13-45235
*1345235*Please recycle 

A/RES/68/215Report of the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme on its first universal session and the implementation of section IV.C, entitled "Environmental 
pillar in the context of sustainable development", of the outcome document 
of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development

Report of the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme on its first universal session and the implementation of section IV.C, entitled "Environmental 
pillar in the context of sustainable development", of the outcome document 
of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable DevelopmentA/RES/68/215

4/4

3/4

