[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 20 December 2013
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/68/438)]
68/207.	Sustainable tourism and sustainable development in Central America
	The General Assembly,
	Recalling all relevant resolutions of the General Assembly on this matter, in particular its resolution 66/196 of 22 December 2011,
	Recalling also the Manila Declaration on World Tourism,1 the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development2 and Agenda 21,3 the Amman Declaration on Peace through Tourism,4 the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development5 and the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development (Johannesburg Plan of Implementation),6 the Declaration of Barbados7 and the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,8 the Mauritius Declaration9 and the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,10 the Istanbul Declaration,11 the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2011-202012 and the outcome document of the special event to follow up efforts made towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals,13
	Recalling further the outcome document of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, entitled "The future we want",14
	Welcoming the ongoing efforts made by Member States and the United Nations system in the elaboration of the post-2015 development agenda,
	Recognizing the important role of sustainable tourism as a positive instrument towards the eradication of poverty, the protection of the environment and the improvement of quality of life and its contribution to the three dimensions of sustainable development, especially in developing countries,
	Emphasizing that sustainable tourism in Central America is a cross-cutting issue with close linkages to other sectors, generates trade opportunities and is a fundamental pillar of regional integration and an engine of social and economic development, income, investment and hard currency and therefore contributes to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals,
	Stressing that poverty eradication through tourism with a focus on ecotourism, community-based tourism and micro- and small businesses in the tourism supply chain is a key objective in the strategic planning of the Central American countries, 
	Acknowledging the objectives, efforts and achievements of the Marrakech Process on sustainable consumption and production and of the Global Partnership for Sustainable Tourism, 
	Acknowledging with appreciation the processes called for in the outcome document of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development that are now under way, including the Open Working Group on Sustainable Development Goals,
	Recalling the Joint Declaration, the Plan of Action and the declaration of 2012 as the Year of Sustainable Tourism in Central America, adopted in San Salvador on 22 July 2011, and the Declaration of the Central American Tourism Council, adopted at its eighty-second meeting, held in Guanacaste, Costa Rica, on 7 July 2011,
	Noting the outcomes of the Forum on Tourism, Sustainability and Climate Change in Central America, held from 11 to 13 April 2013 in La Ceiba, Honduras, under the auspices of the World Tourism Organization, the Central American Commission on Environment and Development, the Central American Integration System and the Forests of the World organization, among others,
	1.	Takes note of the report submitted by the Secretary-General, taking into account the reports prepared by the World Tourism Organization;15
	2.	Notes the ongoing efforts of the Governments of Central America, in coordination with the Central American Commission for Environment and Development, in the implementation of existing and new programmes designed to launch and promote sustainable tourism throughout the region;
	3.	Welcomes the adoption of the principles of sustainable tourism by the Central American Tourism Integration Secretariat, conceptualized by the Global Sustainable Tourism Council of the World Tourism Organization through its Global Sustainable Tourism Criteria to serve as the framework for tourism development, which are expressed in the strategic plan for sustainable development, 2009-2013, developed by the Central American Tourism Integration Secretariat, capturing the region's vision of itself as an integrated, sustainable, multi-location destination of high quality;
	4.	Notes the valuable role of international cooperation with relevant partners in the implementation of various projects aimed at promoting sustainable tourism in the region, including by strengthening ecotourism, rural tourism and colonial cities tourism; 
	5.	Also notes the existing joint initiatives designed and implemented to stimulate regional tourism integration, such as the Mayan World regional brand; 
	6.	Welcomes the progress made by the Central American countries in converging on a regional tourism strategy based on conserving the region's biodiversity and natural and cultural attractions, reducing poverty through employment and entrepreneurial tourism development that emphasizes the micro- and medium-sized enterprises that dominate the industry, addressing climate change and using tourism as a tool to improve the quality of life of the region's inhabitants;
	7.	Notes the progress made by the Central American Tourism Integration Secretariat in promoting an action plan for tourism and climate change, as a component of the regional strategy on climate change, with support from the Central American Commission for Environment and Development, which contemplates actions to reduce vulnerability in the tourism sector and foster climate change adaptation and mitigation;
	8.	Welcomes the actions taken with the aim of establishing the Global Observatory of Sustainable Tourism network in the Americas, which may well serve as a model for the rest of the region and the Americas in using data on sustainable tourism for improving policies and offering capacity-building to enhance the sustainability of destinations;
	9.	Recognizes the need to support sustainable tourism activities and relevant capacity-building efforts that promote environmental awareness, conserve and protect the environment, respect wildlife, flora, biodiversity, ecosystems and cultural diversity and improve the welfare and livelihoods of local communities by supporting their local economies and the human and natural environment as a whole;
	10.	Also recognizes the opportunities for promoting sustainable tourism activities through the programme on sustainable tourism and its component on ecotourism under the 10-year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and production patterns;
	11.	Stresses the need to promote the further development of sustainable tourism, in particular through the consumption of sustainable tourism products and services, to strengthen the development of ecotourism, building on the implementation of the declaration of 2012 as the Year of Sustainable Tourism in Central America, while maintaining the culture and environmental integrity of indigenous and local communities and enhancing the protection of ecologically sensitive areas and the natural heritage, and to promote the development of sustainable tourism and capacity-building in order to contribute to the strengthening of rural and local communities and micro- and medium-sized enterprises, taking into account the need to address, inter alia, the challenges of climate change and the need to halt the loss of biodiversity;
	12.	Also stresses the need for enhanced support for sustainable tourism activities and relevant capacity-building in developing countries, in order to contribute to the achievement of sustainable development;
	13.	Encourages giving appropriate consideration to the issue of sustainable tourism in the elaboration of the post-2015 development agenda;
	14.	Welcomes the efforts of the World Tourism Organization, the United Nations Environment Programme, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity to promote sustainable tourism worldwide;
	15.	Invites States Members of the United Nations and other stakeholders and the World Tourism Organization to continue to support the activities undertaken by the Central American countries for the promotion of responsible and sustainable tourism in the region, in the context of emergency preparedness and mitigation of and response to natural disasters, as well as for capacity-building, in order to achieve the internationally agreed development goals by extending the benefits of tourism to all sectors of society, in particular the most vulnerable and marginalized groups of the population;
	16.	Encourages the Central American countries, through the Central American Tourism Council and the Central American Tourism Integration Secretariat, to continue to support sustainable tourism with policies that foster responsive and inclusive tourism, strengthen regional identity and protect the natural and cultural heritage, especially their ecosystems and biodiversity, and notes that existing initiatives, such as the Global Partnership for Sustainable Tourism, among other international initiatives, can deliver direct and focused support to Governments to this end;
	17.	Also encourages the Central American countries to share their experiences on sustainable tourism aimed at contributing to poverty alleviation for the benefit of all countries; 
	18.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its seventieth session on developments related to the implementation of the present resolution, taking into account the reports prepared by the World Tourism Organization in this field.

71st plenary meeting
20 December 2013

1 A/36/236, annex, appendix I.
2 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992, vol. I, Resolutions Adopted by the Conference (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum), resolution 1, annex I.
3 Ibid., annex II.
4 A/55/640, annex.
5 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
6 Ibid., resolution 2, annex.
7 Report of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Bridgetown, Barbados, 25 April-6 May 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.94.I.18 and corrigenda), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
8 Ibid., annex II.
9 Report of the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Port Louis, Mauritius, 10-14 January 2005 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.05.II.A.4 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
10 Ibid., annex II.
11 Report of the Fourth United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries, Istanbul, Turkey, 
9-13 May 2011 (A/CONF.219/7), chap. I.
12 Ibid., chap. II.
13 Resolution 68/6.
14 Resolution 66/288, annex.
15 A/68/278.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1345187E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/68/207<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

4
    

4

United NationsA/RES/68/207General AssemblyDistr.: General
21 January 2014Sixty-eighth session
Agenda item 19

13-45187
*1345187*Please recycle 

A/RES/68/207Sustainable tourism and sustainable development in Central America

Sustainable tourism and sustainable development in Central AmericaA/RES/68/207

4/4

3/4

