[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 24 December 2008
[on the report of the Fifth Committee (A/63/639)]
63/250.	Human resources management


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling Articles 8, 97, 100 and 101 of the Charter of the United Nations, 
	Recalling also its resolutions 49/222 A and B of 23 December 1994 and 20 July 1995, 51/226 of 3 April 1997, 52/219 of 22 December 1997, 52/252 of 8 September 1998, 53/221 of 7 April 1999, 55/258 of 14 June 2001, 57/305 of 15 April 2003, 58/296 of 18 June 2004, 59/266 of 23 December 2004, 60/1 of 16 September 2005, 60/260 of 8 May 2006, 61/244 of 22 December 2006, 61/276, section VIII, of 29 June 2007, 62/238, section XXI, of 22 December 2007 and 62/248 of 3 April 2008, as well as its other relevant resolutions and decisions, 
	Reaffirming that the staff of the United Nations is an invaluable asset of the Organization, and commending its contribution to furthering the purposes and principles of the United Nations, 
	Paying tribute to the memory of all staff members who have lost their lives in the service of the Organization, 
	Having considered the relevant reports on human resources management submitted to the General Assembly,1
	Having also considered the report of the Office of Internal Oversight Services on an in-depth evaluation of the Office of Human Resources Management2 and the addendum to the report of the International Civil Service Commission for 2006,3 
	Having further considered the related reports of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions,4 
	Endorses the conclusions and recommendations contained in the reports of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions,4 subject to the provisions of the present resolution; 

I
Human resources management reform
	1.	Emphasizes the fundamental importance of human resources management reform in the United Nations as a contribution to the strengthening of the international civil service, recalls, in this context, the reports of the International Civil Service Commission, and reaffirms its commitment to the implementation of these reforms; 
	2.	Stresses the importance of a meaningful and constructive dialogue between staff and management, in particular on human resources-related issues, and calls upon both parties to intensify efforts to overcome differences and to resume the consultative process; 
	3.	Expresses concern over the fact that staff representatives from New York and Geneva have withdrawn from participation in the Staff-Management Coordination Committee, and reiterates its call to the staff representatives from New York and Geneva and management to intensify efforts to overcome differences and to engage in a consultative process;
	4.	Requests the Secretary-General to take advantage of the existing mechanisms for conflict resolution and mediation as deemed useful and appropriate in order to facilitate renewed dialogue between staff and management;
	5.	Recalls section I, paragraphs 1 and 3, of its resolution 61/244, bearing in mind article VIII of the Staff Regulations, and requests the Secretary-General to submit proposals to the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session to review the staff-management mechanism for addressing human resources management issues, in consultation with relevant bodies;
	6.	Takes note of the report of the Office of Internal Oversight Services on an in-depth evaluation of the Office of Human Resources Management,2 in particular the recommendations set out in section VI thereof;
	7.	Requests the Secretary-General, taking into account paragraph 22 of the report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions,5 to ensure that measures to identify and promote future leaders have clear criteria and mechanisms for selection, and that they are implemented within the framework of the staff selection system, and to provide information on their precise financial implications;

II
Contractual arrangements and harmonization of conditions of service
	1.	Stresses the need for rationalization of the current United Nations system of contractual arrangements, which lacks transparency and is complex to administer; 
	2.	Approves the new contractual arrangements which would comprise three types of appointments (temporary, fixed-term and continuing), under one set of Staff Rules, effective 1 July 2009, as set out in its resolution 62/248 and subject to the provisions of the present resolution; 
	3. 	Requests the Secretary-General not to appoint any staff to continuing contracts before 1 January 2010 pending consideration by the General Assembly of the additional information concerning the implementation of continuing contracts; 
	4.	Also requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session on the following issues with a view to the implementation of a system for the continuing appointment regime by 1 January 2010: 
	(a)	Rigorous and transparent procedures for granting continuing appointments to staff, including the criteria for eligibility, the relationship with disciplinary measures and the central management of conversions;
	(b)	The role of the performance appraisal system and options for strengthening it to ensure that staff members considered for continuing appointments have demonstrated the highest standards of efficiency, competence and integrity, taking into account any deliberations of the International Civil Service Commission on this issue;
	(c)	The financial and management implications of converting appointments from fixed-term to continuing appointments, and the possible establishment of a ceiling on the number of conversions;
	(d)	Analysis of the implications of the proposed continuing appointments for the system of geographical ranges;
	(e)	Rigorous and transparent procedures to review the performance of staff and the continuing need for functions when determining the granting and termination of an appointment of a staff member, as well as clear and firm lines of accountability, to fully ensure that the granting and termination of continuing contracts is undertaken in a fair and transparent manner, with full regard to due process and the rights of staff; 
	(f)	Options for ensuring that successful candidates from national competitive examinations and language staff are not disadvantaged by proposed changes;
	(g)	Analysis of the implications for Junior Professional Officers;
	(h)	The potential ramifications of the proposed amendment to staff regulation 9.1;
	5.	Decides to continue to suspend until 30 June 2009 the application of the four-year limit for appointments of limited duration under the 300 series of the Staff Rules in peacekeeping operations; 
	6. 	Authorizes the Secretary-General, bearing in mind paragraph 5 of the present section, to reappoint under the 100 series of the Staff Rules those mission staff whose service under 300-series contracts has reached the four-year limit by 30 June 2009, provided that their functions have been reviewed and found necessary and that their performance has been confirmed as fully satisfactory; 
	7.	Decides that temporary appointments are to be used to appoint staff for seasonal or peak workloads and specific short-term requirements for less than one year but could be renewed for up to one additional year when warranted by surge requirements and operational needs related to field operations and special projects with finite mandates; 
	8. 	Also decides that staff on temporary contracts would be eligible to receive only the following benefits and allowances: post adjustment; rental subsidy; hazard pay; hardship allowance; the daily subsistence allowance portion of the assignment grant; leave (depending on the length of contract); home leave (per classification of duty station); and limited shipment allowance; 
	9.	Requests, in this regard, the Secretary-General to provide information on the circumstances in which the renewal of a temporary appointment for up to one additional year could be granted;
	10.	Decides that the field staff serving on 300-series appointments of less than four years who are not performing temporary functions are to be given mission-specific fixed-term contracts until such time as they have gone through a competitive process subject to the review of a central review body;
	11.	Also decides that staff on 100-, 200- and 300-series contracts serving in locations other than peacekeeping operations and special political missions for a cumulative period of more than one year who are not performing temporary functions are to be given fixed-term contracts until such time as they have gone through a competitive process subject to the review of a central review body; 
	12.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly for consideration at the first part of its resumed sixty-third session draft regulations by which the streamlined system of contracts could be implemented;
	13.	Also requests the Secretary-General to evaluate the impact of the implementation of the new system of contracts, including its financial implications, and to report to the General Assembly on this matter no earlier than at its sixty-seventh session; 
	14. 	Further requests the Secretary-General to discontinue the practice of assigning staff from Headquarters to missions on a travel status basis for a period of more than three months; 
	15.	Recalls section V, paragraph 2, of its resolution 51/226, in which it requested the Secretary-General to make efforts to achieve the level of 70 per cent of permanent appointments in posts subject to geographical distribution; 
	16.	Encourages the Secretary-General, in accordance with legislative mandates, to ensure a judicious mix of career and fixed-term appointments, so as to have an appropriate balance between institutional memory, long-term commitment and independence and the ability to bring in fresh insight and expertise, and to dismiss non-performing staff;
	17.	Recognizes that an effective and credible performance appraisal system is an important element in the implementation of the new contractual arrangements; 
	18.	Acknowledges the need to centrally manage the conversion from fixed-term to continuing appointments on a competitive and transparent basis; 
	19.	Decides to revert at its sixty-fifth session to the proposal of the Secretary-General to create a cadre of civilian career peacekeepers in the light of the lessons learned from the implementation of the new arrangements for contracts and conditions of service; 
	20.	Stresses that the fair and equitable implementation of new contractual arrangements will be directly linked to the effective functioning of the new system of administration of justice; 
	21. 	Decides that there shall be no expectations, legal or otherwise, of renewal or conversion of a fixed-term contract, irrespective of the length of service, and requests the Secretary-General to reflect this provision in the rules and regulations as well as offers and letters of appointment;
	22.	Also decides that, in the context of the Secretary-General's proposal, "in the interest of the good administration of the Organization" is to be interpreted principally as a change or termination of a mandate; 
	23.	Reaffirms that, while continuing appointments are not implemented, successful candidates from national competitive recruitment examinations and staff from language services after two years of probationary service will continue to be granted open-ended appointments according to the current practice;
	24.	Decides that the period of service of Junior Professional Officers shall not be taken into account as part of the requisite period of service for a continuing appointment;
	25.	Notes that the International Civil Service Commission will be reviewing all separation payments, including the possibility of an end-of-service bonus; 
	26.	Decides to designate existing established missions as family missions and existing special missions as non-family missions, effective 1 July 2009; 
	27.	Also decides that all staff appointed or assigned to non-family missions shall be installed in accordance with conditions of the United Nations common system, without the special-operations approach; 
	28.	Requests the International Civil Service Commission to keep the issue of United Nations common system conditions of service in the field under review; 
	29.	Decides to keep the issue of United Nations common system conditions of service in the field under review; 
	30.	Approves the introduction of a rest and recuperation scheme to include travel time, appropriate to the location, but no payment of travel to the staff member, for internationally recruited staff members in United Nations field operations to replace the occasional recuperation break, effective 1 January 2009; 

III
Recruitment and staffing
	1.	Reiterates that the Secretary-General has to ensure that the highest standards of efficiency, competence and integrity serve as the paramount consideration in the employment of staff, with due regard to the principle of equitable geographical distribution, in accordance with Article 101, paragraph 3, of the Charter of the United Nations; 
	2.	Reaffirms that measures on meeting organizational mandates, accountability targets and indicators of achievement, including with respect to geographical distribution of staff and gender balance, contained in human resources action plans and recruitment procedures, including selection decisions, shall fully correspond to the provisions contained in Article 101, paragraph 3, of the Charter as well as in relevant General Assembly mandates; 
	3.	Notes that the upcoming demographic transition of United Nations staff will present organizational challenges in terms of staff continuity and possible loss of institutional knowledge as well as opportunities to rejuvenate the Organization; 
	4.	Emphasizes the need for strategic workforce planning to proactively support the human resources needs of the United Nations, and in this regard urges the Secretary-General to pursue efforts in this area as a matter of priority; 
	5.	Urges the Secretary-General to ensure that outreach activities cover positions both at Headquarters and in the field; 
	6.	Recognizes the importance of speeding up the recruitment and staffing process, in accordance with Article 101, paragraph 3, of the Charter, which will ensure that staff are diverse, multi-skilled and versatile; 
	7.	Acknowledges the need to simplify the current reference check for speeding up the recruitment process, and requests the Secretary-General to review the procedure and take necessary actions as soon as possible; 
	8.	Decides that, in order to ensure the transparency of the recruitment process, all specific vacancy announcements shall continue to be advertised; 
	9.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue to ensure equal treatment of candidates with equivalent educational backgrounds during the recruitment process, taking fully into account that Member States have different educational systems and that no education system shall be considered the standard to be applied to the Organization; 
	10.	Invites the Secretary-General, when appointing officials at the D-1 and D-2 levels in departments of the Secretariat that provide backstopping and/or policy guidance to field missions, to fully consider the relevant field experience of the candidates, as one of the highly desirable appointment criteria; 
	11.	Underlines that the upgraded electronic staff selection system of the United Nations must be clear, simplified, user-friendly and accessible to potential candidates and that regular monitoring must be in place to ensure transparency and non-discrimination, and requests the Secretary-General to report thereon to the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session; 
	12.	Recognizes that pre-screened rosters can considerably expedite the recruitment process in the United Nations; 
	13.	Notes that the existing rosters for Headquarters and established duty stations under the current staff selection system have design flaws and have not been utilized widely to fill vacancies; 
	14.	Acknowledges the necessity of ensuring transparency and accountability with respect to recruitment of general temporary assistance and consultants; 
	15.	Reaffirms section II, paragraph 6, of its resolution 61/244, in which it decided to retain the criterion of geographical status in the staff selection system as one of the key elements to ensure geographical balance at each level for posts subject to geographical distribution; 
	16.	Requests the Secretary-General to ensure that all anticipated and immediate vacancies are properly advertised and filled quickly, and to report on the success of this endeavour to the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session; 
	17.	Emphasizes the importance of the participation of staff representatives in the work of the central review bodies, and requests the Secretary-General and invites staff representatives to engage in a consultative process with a view to resuming the participation of staff representatives in the work of the central review bodies;
	18.	Requests the Secretary-General to include analysis of the implementation of the human resources action plans in the context of the report on the composition of the Secretariat;
	19.	Recognizes the added value that a redesign panel could bring to the reform of the recruitment and staffing processes;
	20.	Decides to revert to the issue of establishing a redesign panel for this purpose at its sixty-fifth session;

IV
National competitive examinations
	1.	Reaffirms that national competitive examinations are the source of recruitment for P-2 posts subject to geographical distribution in order to reduce non-representation and underrepresentation of Member States in the Secretariat; 
	2.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly, for consideration at its sixty-fifth session, a feasibility study, building on audit reports, to determine whether the broadening of the scope of the national competitive examination would serve to further strengthen the capacity of the Organization for programme delivery, as recommended by the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions in its report;5
	3.	Notes with concern that a large number of candidates who have passed national competitive examinations remain on the roster for years; 
	4.	Requests the Secretary-General to ensure the expeditious placement of successful candidates from national competitive examinations; 
	5.	Welcomes the enhanced efforts of the Secretary-General to centrally manage the placement of successful candidates from national competitive examinations, and requests him to intensify these efforts and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session; 
	6.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session on the implementation of the recommendations of the Joint Inspection Unit aimed at reducing the length of the national competitive recruitment examination process and improving the national competitive recruitment examination roster management, as well as setting time frames for completion of the process; 
	7.	Also requests the Secretary-General, in his capacity as Chairman of the United Nations System Chief Executives Board for Coordination, to further cooperate within the framework of the Human Resources Network, making better use of national competitive recruitment examinations and existing rosters, and improving inter-agency mobility; 
	8.	Recognizes the importance of the Secretary-General providing career development opportunities and support, including enhancing mobility for all staff, including those recruited from national competitive examinations;

V
Accountability
	1. 	Recalls its resolution 61/244 and all other relevant resolutions on human resources management, including geographical distribution and gender representation in posts, and stresses the accountability of the Secretary-General for implementation and the concrete results obtained for these important principles and mandates;
	2.	Emphasizes that robust and proactive monitoring is essential at all levels, and requests the Secretary-General to ensure that the Office of Human Resources Management continues to strengthen its monitoring of delegated authority for human resources management, including compliance with geographical and gender targets and the prompt filling of vacancies; 
	3.	Notes that the senior managers' compacts are meant to improve the management of the Organization, inter alia, by increasing accountability and transparency at the senior level, and in this regard urges the Secretary-General to implement measures that adequately address the performance of senior managers, especially with regard to achieving goals and targets; 

VI
Performance appraisal system
	1.	Emphasizes that a credible, fair and fully functioning performance appraisal system is critical to effective human resources management policies; 
	2.	Expresses concern over the lack of credibility and effectiveness of the current performance appraisal system, and stresses the need for it to accurately reflect the full range of performance, in order to be able to reward staff for excellent performance and impose sanctions for underperformance and to strengthen the link between performance and career progression, in particular for those staff members in managerial positions; 
	3.	Notes the intention of the Secretary-General to begin utilizing 360-degree performance appraisals, and requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session on how this can be further implemented; 
	4.	Requests the Secretary-General to review the current performance appraisal system in consultation with staff through the appropriate channels, and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session;

VII
Mobility
	1.	Reaffirms section VIII of its resolution 59/266; 
	2.	Stresses that the purpose of enhancing mobility is to improve the effectiveness of the Organization and to foster the skills and capacity of staff; 
	3.	Decides to review the regulations and rules of the Organization relating to the exercise by the Secretary-General of his authority to assign and deploy staff according to the operational needs of the Organization, and requests him to submit proposals in this regard to the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session;
	4.	Regrets that the Secretary-General's mobility policies failed to achieve their intended purposes; 
	5.	Notes the intention of the Secretary-General as set out in his report6 to suspend the managed mobility programmes upon completion of the D-1/D-2 exercise, in order for a review to be undertaken, including on the maximum period of occupancy of post and lessons learned, with a view to developing proposals on the mobility policy, taking into account recommendations of the Task Force on Human Resources Management, in consultation with all relevant stakeholders, including staff associations, and requests him to report thereon to the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session in the context of his report on human resources management, with an analysis of cost and benefits, bearing in mind paragraph 46 of the report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions;5
	6.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit proposals aimed at encouraging voluntary mobility of staff in the context of the review of the mobility policy, without prejudice to the different needs of duty stations and the field; 
	7.	Emphasizes that the scope of the mobility policy should be well defined;

VIII
Career development and support
	1.	Requests the Secretary-General, in complying with paragraph 17 of the report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions,5 to make all possible efforts within existing resources; 
	2.	Reaffirms the importance of defining the target and strategy of training and career development; 
	3.	Requests the Secretary-General to make full use of the grade structure and to submit a concrete proposal to the General Assembly at the sixty-fifth session on how and where P-1 positions might be used more effectively; 
	4.	Also requests the Secretary-General to submit proposals on a strategy to implement an efficient and effective training and professional development programme in the context of the budget submission for the biennium 2010-2011; 
	5.	Further requests the Secretary-General to ensure that each vacancy announcement identifies accurately the skills, education and experience required for the position; 
	6.	Recognizes the core role played by programme managers in career development and support, and requests the Secretary-General to strengthen the evaluation of their managerial skills and their performance in fostering staff career development; 

IX
Measures to improve equitable geographical representation/composition 
of the Secretariat
	1.	Recalls its resolution 42/220 A of 21 December 1987, by which it introduced the current system of desirable ranges; 
	2.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue his ongoing efforts to attain equitable geographical distribution in the Secretariat and to ensure as wide a geographical distribution of staff as possible in all departments, offices and levels, including the Director level and higher levels, of the Secretariat; 
	3.	Recalls section X, paragraph 12, of its resolution 61/244, and expresses concern over the increase that has taken place in the number of unrepresented and underrepresented Member States since 2006; 
	4.	Regrets the current insufficient accountability of heads of departments in achieving equitable geographical distribution in the Secretariat; 
	5.	Welcomes the continuing efforts of the Secretary-General to improve the situation of unrepresented and underrepresented Member States and of those which might become underrepresented under the system of desirable ranges; 
	6.	Notes the analysis of the level of underrepresentation in the reports of the Secretary-General on the composition of the Secretariat;7
	7.	Reiterates its request to the Secretary-General to take all necessary measures to ensure, at the senior and policymaking levels of the Secretariat, equitable representation of Member States, especially those with inadequate representation at those levels, and to continue to include relevant information thereon in all future reports on the composition of the Secretariat; 
	8.	Reiterates its requests to the Secretary-General to present proposals to effectively increase the representation of developing countries in the Secretariat, and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session;
	9.	Welcomes the efforts of the Secretary-General to set specific targets throughout the Organization in order to increase recruitment from unrepresented and underrepresented Member States; 
	10.	Considers that encouragement of recruitment from unrepresented and underrepresented Member States as well as gender balance targets shall not disallow other qualified candidates from competing; 
	11.	Reiterates its request to the Secretary-General to ensure, through the Management Performance Board, the monitoring of the implementation of human resources action plans, including the principle of equitable geographical distribution in the Secretariat at all levels, as set out in relevant General Assembly resolutions, and the verification of the effective application of measures of transparency and accountability, including in the selection, recruitment and placement processes; 
	12.	Reiterates its request as contained in section X, paragraph 8, of its resolution 61/244;
	13.	Recalls paragraph 22 of its resolution 62/250 of 20 June 2008, and requests the Secretary-General to ensure the proper representation of troop-contributing countries in the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and the Department of Field Support, of the Secretariat, taking into account their contribution to United Nations peacekeeping;
	14.	Re-emphasizes that the system of geographical ranges was designed to apply to countries rather than to regions or groups; 
	15.	Recalls its request to the Secretary-General to reduce, to the extent possible, the number of unrepresented and underrepresented Member States in the Secretariat by 30 per cent by 2010, compared to the level in 2006, and requests him to report to the General Assembly thereon, as appropriate, in the context of his report on human resources management; 
	16.	Reaffirms that the system of desirable ranges is the mechanism for recruitment of staff to posts subject to geographical distribution, in accordance with Article 101, paragraph 3, of the Charter;
	17.	Recognizes that considerable change has taken place in the composition and the number of staff of the global United Nations Secretariat in the past two decades, recalls the reports of the Secretary-General,8 and requests him to submit to the General-Assembly, at its sixty-fifth session, proposals for a comprehensive review of the system of desirable ranges, with a view to establishing a more effective tool to ensure equitable geographical distribution in relation to the total number of staff of the global United Nations Secretariat;
	18.	Requests the Secretary-General to gradually incorporate within his report on the composition of the Secretariat the overall number of staff, regardless of sources of funding, on contracts of one year or more; 
	19. 	Reiterates its request as contained in section X, paragraph 15, of its resolution 61/244, and recalls section II, paragraph 2, of its resolution 42/220 A;

X
Gender representation
	1.	Reaffirms the goal of 50/50 gender distribution in all categories of posts within the United Nations system, especially at senior and policymaking levels, with full respect for the principle of equitable geographical distribution, in conformity with Article 101 of the Charter, and regrets that progress towards attaining this goal has been slow; 
	2.	Expresses concern at the continuing low proportion of women in the Secretariat, in particular the low proportion of women from developing countries, especially at the senior levels, and stresses that, in the recruitment process, the continuing lack of representation or underrepresentation of women from certain countries, in particular from developing countries, should be taken into account and that those women should be accorded equal opportunities, in full conformity with relevant resolutions; 
	3.	Notes with concern that, in posts subject to the system of desirable ranges, only 33 women from developing countries were recruited between 1 July 2007 and 30 June 2008 among the 96 women appointed during that period; 
	4.	Requests the Secretary-General to increase his efforts to attain and monitor the goal of gender parity in the Secretariat, in particular at senior levels, and in this context to ensure that women, especially those from developing countries and countries with economies in transition, are appropriately represented within the Secretariat, and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session; 
	5.	Notes the renewed effort the Secretary-General has made towards attaining this goal, particularly the decision to design and implement a forward-looking strategy under the leadership of the Deputy Secretary-General, and encourages him to further strengthen these efforts; 
	6.	Requests the Secretary-General, in the context of attaining this goal, to develop and implement recruitment targets, time frames for meeting those targets and accountability measures; 
	7.	Encourages Member States to support the efforts of the Secretary-General by identifying more women candidates and encouraging them to apply for appointment to positions in the Secretariat and by creating awareness among their nationals, in particular women, of vacancies in the Secretariat; 

XI
Consultants, individual contractors, gratis personnel and employment 
of retired staff
	1.	Requests the Secretary-General to adhere to existing guidelines on the selection and recruitment of consultants and individual contractors; 
	2.	Expresses concern over the increase in the use of consultants, especially in the core activities of the Organization, stresses that the use of consultants should be governed by the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly, in particular resolution 53/221, section VIII, and that they should drawn from the widest possible geographical basis, and requests the Secretary-General to make the greatest possible use of in-house capacity and to report to the Assembly at its sixty-fifth session on the measures taken to that effect;
	3.	Reiterates its concern that the continuous trend of hiring staff retirees for extended periods of time increased in the last biennium; 
	4.	Reiterates that employment of retirees in decision-making positions should occur only in exceptional circumstances; 
	5.	Requests the Secretary-General to include, in future reports on the employment of retirees, analysis on reasons for patterns and trends that emerge from data presented; 

XII
Report of the Ethics Office
	1.	Notes with appreciation the contributions of the Ethics Office to promoting integrity within the Organization; 
	2.	Welcomes the establishment of the United Nations Ethics Committee; 
	3.	Requests the Secretary-General to clarify the roles of the Ethics Office, the Office of the Ombudsman, the Office of Internal Oversight Services and other related offices, and to report the findings, as well as the measures taken to avoid overlapping of mandates, to the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session; 
	4.	Also requests the Secretary-General to discuss with the executive heads of the specialized agencies, funds and programmes, within the framework of the United Nations System Chief Executives Board for Coordination, areas of possible cooperation and cost savings on ethics-related matters; 
	5.	Further requests the Secretary-General to include in his report on the activities of the Ethics Office, information on the activities of the Ethics Committee, including a review of any complex ethics issues dealt with by the Committee, if deemed relevant;

XIII
Other matters
	1.	Notes with concern that many disciplinary cases have not been completed in a reasonable time, and requests the Secretary-General to include in his annual report information on measures taken to increase the number of cases closed; 
	2.	Invites the Sixth Committee to consider the legal aspects of the report of the Secretary-General entitled "Implementation of the Regulations Governing the Status, Basic Rights and Duties of Officials other than Secretariat Officials and Experts on Mission"9 without prejudice to the role of the Fifth Committee as the Main Committee of the General Assembly responsible for administrative and budgetary matters; 
	3.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session on the implementation of the human resources management information technology system;
	4.	Also requests the Secretary-General to strengthen programmes to promote health in hardship posts, including through psychological support and disease awareness, with a view to promoting productivity and a better work environment;
	5. 	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on measures to address the imbalance in the geographical distribution of the staff in the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights;10
	6.	Also takes note of the amendments to the Staff Rules as contained in the annex to the above-mentioned report.10

74th plenary meeting
24 December 2008
1 A/61/206, A/61/694 and Add.1, A/61/732, A/61/806 and Add.1, A/61/822, A/61/823, A/61/850, A/61/861, A/61/957, A/61/1029, A/62/185, A/62/186, A/62/215, A/62/274, A/62/285, A/62/315, A/62/707 and Add.1, A/62/845 and Add.1, A/62/890, A/63/132, A/63/189, A/63/204, A/63/208, A/63/282, A/63/285, A/63/290, A/63/298, A/63/301 and A/63/310 and Add.1-3.
2 A/63/221.
3 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-first Session, Supplement No. 30, addendum (A/61/30/Add.1).
4 A/62/7/Add.14 (for the final text, see Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-second Session, Supplement No. 7A) and A/63/526 and Corr.1.
5 A/63/526 and Corr.1.
6 A/63/208.
7 A/62/315 and A/63/310 and Add.1-3.
8 A/58/767 and A/59/724.
9 A/61/1029.
10 A/61/823.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0848579E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/63/250<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/63/250General AssemblyDistr.: General
10 February 2009Sixty-third session
Agenda item 123

08-48579

A/RES/63/250

A/RES/63/250

12

13

