[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 19 December 2007
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/62/419/Add.5)]
62/193.	Implementation of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 58/211 of 23 December 2003, 61/202 of 20 December 2006 and other resolutions relating to the implementation of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa,1
	Recalling also the 2005 World Summit Outcome,2
	Reasserting its commitment to promoting desertification control, eradicating extreme poverty, promoting sustainable development in arid, semi-arid and dry
sub-humid areas and improving the livelihoods of people affected by drought and/or desertification,
	Determined to build upon the momentum and to boost the spirit of international solidarity generated by the designation of 2006 as the International Year of Deserts and Desertification,
	Reaffirming the universal membership of the Convention, and acknowledging that desertification and drought are problems of a global dimension in that they affect all regions in the world,
	Emphasizing that desertification seriously threatens the ability of developing countries to achieve the internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals, and recognizing that the timely and effective implementation of the Convention would help to achieve these goals,
	Concerned about the negative impacts desertification, land degradation, loss of biological diversity and climate change have on each other, while emphasizing the potential benefits of complementarities in addressing these problems in a mutually supportive manner,
	Reaffirming the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation"),3 which recognizes the Convention as one of the tools for poverty eradication,
	Recognizing the need to provide the secretariat of the Convention with stable, adequate and predictable resources in order to enable it to continue to discharge its responsibilities in an efficient and timely manner,
	Welcoming the decision of the eleventh session of the Commission on Sustainable Development to consider, among others, the issue of desertification and drought during its sixteenth and seventeenth sessions,4
	Expressing its deep appreciation to the Government of Spain for hosting the eighth session of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention in Madrid from 3 to 14 September 2007,
	Expressing also its deep appreciation to the Government of Argentina for hosting the fifth session of the Committee for the Review of the Implementation of the Convention in Buenos Aires from 12 to 21 March 2007,
	Welcoming the offer made by the Government of Turkey to host the seventh session of the Committee for the Review of the Implementation of the Convention in conjunction with the special intersessional session of the Committee on Science and Technology, in Istanbul, from 20 to 29 October 2008,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa;5
	2.	Reaffirms its resolve to support and strengthen the implementation of the Convention1 with a view to addressing causes of desertification and land degradation, as well as poverty resulting from land degradation, through, inter alia, the mobilization of adequate and predictable financial resources, the transfer of technology and capacity-building at all levels;
	3.	Welcomes the adoption by the Conference of the Parties to the Convention at its eighth session, in its decision 3/COP.8, of the ten-year strategic plan and framework to enhance the implementation of the Convention (2008-2018),6 invites all parties, the secretariat of the Convention and other institutions and supporting bodies to cooperate and coordinate their activities for a successful implementation of the strategy, and also invites all parties to report on the progress made in the implementation of the strategy;
	4.	Expresses its appreciation for the financial contributions made by Member States and other relevant stakeholders in support of the activities of the Intersessional Intergovernmental Working Group on the ten-year strategic plan and framework to enhance the implementation of the Convention;
	5.	Notes the request made for an assessment of the Global Mechanism by the Joint Inspection Unit of the United Nations, and looks forward to its findings;7
	6.	Reiterates its call upon Governments, where appropriate, in collaboration with relevant multilateral organizations, including the Global Environment Facility implementation agencies, to integrate desertification into their plans and strategies for sustainable development;
	7.	Invites developed countries parties to the Convention and other Governments, multilateral organizations, the private sector and other relevant organizations to make resources available to affected developing countries for the implementation of the ten-year strategic plan and framework to enhance the implementation of the Convention;
	8.	Notes with appreciation the efforts of the Secretariat to continue its administrative renewal and reform and to streamline its functions in order to fully implement the recommendations of the Joint Inspection Unit and bring them into line with the ten-year strategic plan and framework to enhance the implementation of the Convention;
	9.	Invites the States parties to the Convention to provide the new Executive Secretary of the Convention with full support in the fulfilment of his mandate and in promoting the implementation of the Convention;
	10.	Notes the ongoing work of the Joint Liaison Group of the secretariats and offices of the relevant subsidiary bodies of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change,8 the Convention on Biological Diversity9 and the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa, and further encourages continuing cooperation in order to promote complementarities in the work of the secretariats, while respecting their independent legal status;
	11.	Also notes the decision of the Conference of the Parties at its eighth session to renew the mandate of the Committee for the Review of the Implementation of the Convention as a subsidiary body of the Conference of the Parties;10
	12.	Further notes the decision taken by the Council of the Global Environment Facility in December 2006 to invite the fourth Assembly of the Facility to amend the Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility so as to list the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification among the conventions for which the Facility plays the role of financial mechanism;11
	13.	Recalls the fourth replenishment of the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund,12 stresses the importance of the fulfilment of the commitments made, and emphasizes in this regard the need to continue to allocate adequate financial resources to the focal area of land degradation;
	14.	Welcomes the ongoing process of addressing the issue of adopting the euro as the budgetary and accounting currency of the Convention, and in this regard requests the Secretary-General, taking into account the institutional linkage and related administrative arrangements between the Convention secretariat and the United Nations Secretariat, to facilitate the implementation of decisions of the Conference of the Parties related to the protection of the Convention budget against negative effects of currency fluctuations;
	15.	Invites the Executive Secretary of the Convention, in coordination with the Department of Economic and Social Affairs of the United Nations Secretariat, to actively prepare for and participate in the sixteenth and seventeenth sessions of the Commission on Sustainable Development with a view to ensuring that the Convention core issues, in particular those relating to land degradation, drought and desertification, are duly considered in the context of sustainable development during the deliberations of the review session, with a view to ensuring a successful outcome from the entire cycle of the Commission;
	16.	Invites the Conference of the Parties to the Convention, when setting the dates of its meetings, to take into consideration the schedule of meetings of the General Assembly and the Commission on Sustainable Development so as to help ensure the adequate representation of developing countries at those meetings;
	17.	Requests the Secretary-General to make provision for the sessions of the Conference of the Parties and its subsidiary bodies in his proposal for the programme budget for the biennium 2008-2009;
	18.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-third session the sub-item entitled "Implementation of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa";
	19.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report on the implementation of the present resolution, including a report on the implementation of the Convention, to the General Assembly at its sixty-third session.

78th plenary meeting
19 December 2007
1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1954, No. 33480.
2 See resolution 60/1.
3 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 2, annex.
4 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2003, Supplement No. 9 (E/2003/29), chap. I, sect. A, draft resolution I.
5 A/62/276, annex II.
6 A/C.2/62/7, annex.
7 Ibid., sect. F, para. 27.
8 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1771, No. 30822.
9 Ibid., vol. 1760, No. 30619.
10 ICCD/COP(8)/16/Add.1, decision 7/COP.8.
11 Global Environment Facility, document GEF/C.30/7. Available from www.gefweb.org.
12 Global Environment Facility, document GEF/A.3/6. Available from www.gefweb.org.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0747535E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/62/193<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

1
    

1

United NationsA/RES/62/193General AssemblyDistr.: General
19 February 2008Sixty-second session
Agenda item 54 (e)

07-47535

A/RES/62/193

A/RES/62/193

2

3

