[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 27 December 2013
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/68/438/Add.2)]
68/238.	Follow-up to and implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States
	The General Assembly,
	Reaffirming the Declaration of Barbados1 and the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,2 the Mauritius Declaration3 and the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States4 and the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development (Johannesburg Plan of Implementation),5 including chapter VII on the sustainable development of small island developing States, 
	Recalling the outcome document of the high-level review meeting on the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, held in New York on 24 and 25 September 2010,6 
	Reaffirming the outcome document of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, from 20 to 22 June 2012, entitled "The future we want",7 including the call for the convening in 2014 of a third international conference on small island developing States, 
	Recalling its resolutions 67/207 of 21 December 2012, 67/290 of 9 July 2013, 68/1 of 20 September 2013 and 68/6 of 9 October 2013, and its decision 67/558 of 17 May 2013, in which it decided on the dates of the third International Conference on Small Island Developing States, to be held in the Independent State of Samoa,
	Recalling also its resolution 67/206 of 21 December 2012, in which the General Assembly declared 2014 the International Year of Small Island Developing States,
	Recalling further the need to fully mainstream a gender perspective into all United Nations summits, conferences and special sessions and their follow-up processes, 
	Taking note of the Leaders' Declaration adopted at the meeting of the Heads of State and Government of the Alliance of Small Island States, held in New York on 27 September 2012, 
	Welcoming the inaugural meeting of the High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development held in New York on 24 September 2013, and looking forward to the future meetings of the Forum, at which adequate time shall be devoted to the discussion of the sustainable development challenges facing small island developing States,
	Welcoming also the outcome document of the special event to follow up efforts made towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals, held in New York on 25 September 2013,8 
	Recognizing the special challenges and needs of small island developing States, many of which are not on track to achieve the Millennium Development Goals by 2015, 
	Acknowledging with appreciation those Member States that have made voluntary contributions to the trust fund in support of preparations for the Conference and to support the participation of representatives of small island developing States in the regional and interregional preparatory processes, 
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;9
	2.	Recalls that the Commission on Sustainable Development was the primary intergovernmental forum for monitoring the implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action and the Mauritius Strategy, also recalls its resolutions 67/290 of 9 July 2013 and 68/1 of 20 September 2013, and notes the need to devote adequate time to the discussion of the sustainable development challenges of developing countries, including small island developing States; 
	3.	Reaffirms the commitment to take urgent and concrete action to address the vulnerability of small island developing States, including through the sustained implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States2 and the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,4 and underlines the urgency of finding additional solutions to the major challenges facing small island developing States in a concerted manner so as to support them in sustaining the momentum realized in implementing the Barbados Programme of Action and the Mauritius Strategy and achieving sustainable development;
	4.	Acknowledges that small island developing States have demonstrated their commitment to promoting sustainable development and, to that effect, have mobilized resources at the national and regional levels despite their limited resource base, and welcomes the long-standing cooperation and support provided by the international community, which has played an important role in helping small island developing States to make progress in addressing their vulnerabilities and in supporting their sustainable development efforts; 
	5.	Calls for continued and enhanced efforts to assist small island developing States in implementing the Barbados Programme of Action and the Mauritius Strategy and for a strengthening of United Nations system support to small island developing States, in keeping with the multiple ongoing and emerging challenges faced by those States in achieving sustainable development; 
	6.	Decides that the overarching theme of the third International Conference on Small Island Developing States in 2014 shall be "The sustainable development of small island developing States through genuine and durable partnerships", and also decides that the Conference shall serve as a forum to build on existing successful partnerships as well as to launch innovative and concrete new ones to advance the sustainable development of small island developing States; 
	7.	Reaffirms its decision that the third International Conference on Small Island Developing States will result in a concise, focused, forward-looking and action-oriented political document; 
	8.	Takes note of the outcomes of the 2013 regional preparatory meetings for the third International Conference on Small Island Developing States, held from 2 to 4 July in Kingston, from 10 to 12 July in Nadi, Fiji, and from 17 to 19 July in Mahé, Seychelles, as well as the outcome of the interregional meeting held from 26 to 28 August 2013 in Bridgetown;10 
	9.	Decides to establish the Bureau of the Preparatory Committee, consisting of two members of each regional group, and that the Independent State of Samoa will serve as an ex officio member of the Bureau; 
	10.	Also decides that the Bureau will be co-chaired by two Member States, comprising one developed State and one developing State; 
	11.	Invites regional groups to nominate their candidates for the Bureau no later than early January 2014; 
	12.	Decides that discussions at the first meeting of the Preparatory Committee will be based on, inter alia, the outcome document of the interregional preparatory meeting for the Conference; 
	13.	Invites participants in the meetings of the Preparatory Committee to send written inputs on the objectives and substantive theme of the Conference to the Secretariat in advance of the first meeting of the Committee, and invites the Secretariat to make them available electronically; 
	14.	Decides to organize the meetings of the Preparatory Committee in the most efficient and effective manner, as follows: 
	(a)	The first meeting of the Preparatory Committee will be held over three days, from 24 to 26 February 2014, to discuss the objectives and substantive theme of the Conference and organizational and procedural matters, including the rules of procedure, and to elect the members of the Bureau; 
	(b)	The final meeting of the Preparatory Committee will be held over five days, from 23 to 27 June 2014, to finalize the preparatory work for the Conference, including the outcome document; 
	15.	Also decides that all meetings of the Preparatory Committee will be held at United Nations Headquarters in New York;
	16.	Invites the co-chairs to prepare the draft outcome document, to be circulated no later than 14 March 2014; 
	17.	Decides that an intersessional meeting will be held over five days, with interpretation services on an "as available" basis, from 21 to 25 April 2014, to discuss the thematic areas of the outcome document of the Conference, and invites the Bureau to convene further informal meetings in New York, as required and in the most efficient and effective manner; 
	18.	Reiterates that the Conference will be convened at the highest possible level; 
	19.	Recommends the provisional agenda set forth in annex I to the present resolution for adoption by the Conference; 
	20.	Decides that the Conference shall be organized in accordance with the organization of work set forth in annex II to the present resolution; 
	21.	Strongly encourages Member States to conclude negotiations on the draft outcome document at the final meeting of the Preparatory Committee; 
	22.	Requests the Secretary-General to provide all appropriate support to the work of the intergovernmental committee process of the Conference and to the Conference itself and to ensure inter-agency cooperation and effective participation and coherence within the United Nations system, as well as the efficient use of resources, so that the objectives of the Conference can be addressed; 
	23.	Urges international and bilateral donors, as well as the private sector, financial institutions, foundations and other donors in a position to do so, to support the preparations for the Conference through voluntary contributions to the trust fund in support of preparations for the Conference and to support the participation of representatives of developing countries, priority being given to representatives of small island developing States, including coverage of economy-class air tickets, daily subsistence allowances and terminal expenses, in the meetings of the Preparatory Committee and in the Conference itself; 
	24.	Stresses the need for the effective participation of civil society, in particular non-governmental organizations and other major groups, and invites voluntary contributions to the trust fund to support the participation of major groups of developing countries, in particular small island developing States, in the meetings of the Preparatory Committee and in the Conference itself; 
	25.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-ninth session, under the item entitled "Sustainable development", the sub-item entitled "Follow-up to and implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States";
	26.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its sixty-ninth session on the implementation of the present resolution. 

72nd plenary meeting
27 December 2013


Annex I
Provisional agenda of the third International Conference on Small Island Developing States
Apia, 1 to 4 September 2014
1.	Opening of the Conference.
2.	Election of the President.
3.	Adoption of the rules of procedure.
4.	Adoption of the agenda of the Conference.
5.	Election of officers other than the President.
6.	Organization of work, including the establishment of subsidiary bodies, and other organizational matters.
7.	Credentials of representatives to the Conference:
(a)	Appointment of the members of the Credentials Committee;
(b)	Report of the Credentials Committee.
8.	General debate.
9.	Report of the multi-stakeholder partnership dialogues. 
10.	Outcome of the Conference.
11.	Adoption of the report of the Conference.
12.	Closure of the Conference. 


Annex II
Proposed organization of work of the third International Conference on Small Island Developing States
Apia, 1 to 4 September 2014
1.	The arrangements set out below have been formulated pursuant to General Assembly resolution 67/207 of 21 December 2012.
2.	The third International Conference on Small Island Developing States will be held in Apia from 1 to 4 September 2014.

I.	Organization of work
A.	Plenary meetings
3.	The third International Conference on Small Island Developing States will consist of an opening and a closing and a total of six plenary meetings, to be held as follows:
Monday, 1 September 2014: from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 3 to 6 p.m.
Tuesday, 2 September 2014: from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 3 to 6 p.m.
Wednesday, 3 September 2014: from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 3 to 6 p.m.
Thursday, 4 September 2014: from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 3 to 6 p.m.
4.	The six plenary meetings will be devoted to statements.
5.	All plenary meetings will be held at the Faleata Sports Complex in Apia.
6.	The list of speakers for the plenary meetings will be established on a first-come first-served basis, with the customary protocol that ensures that Heads of State or Government speak first followed by other heads of delegation. The European Union, in its capacity as observer, will be included in the list of speakers. Detailed arrangements will be communicated in a timely manner through a note by the Secretariat, prepared in close consultations with the host country and the Bureau of the Preparatory Committee.
7.	At the formal opening of the Conference, to take place during the plenary meeting to be held in the morning of Monday, 1 September 2014, consideration will be given to all procedural and organizational matters, including the adoption of the rules of procedure and the agenda, the election of the President of the Conference, the election of officers, the establishment of a Main Committee, the appointment of the members of the Credentials Committee, arrangements for the preparation of the report of the Conference and other matters. At the opening, statements will be made by the President of the Conference, the President of the General Assembly, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the Chair of the Alliance of Small Island States and the Secretary-General of the Conference. The plenary meeting will also hear statements from other major groups in accordance with the practice of the General Assembly.
8.	The closing plenary meeting, to be held in the afternoon of Thursday, 4 September, is expected to conclude with reporting on multi-stakeholder partnership dialogues, to be followed by the adoption of the outcome document and the report of the Conference.
9.	The plenary meetings will run in parallel with the multi-stakeholder partnership dialogues, except for the opening and closing. 

B.	Multi-stakeholder partnership dialogues
10.	The third International Conference on Small Island Developing States will include six multi-stakeholder partnership dialogues, held in parallel with the plenary meetings, as follows:
Monday, 1 September 2014: from 3 to 6 p.m.
Tuesday, 2 September 2014: from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 3 to 6 p.m.
Wednesday, 3 September 2014: from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 3 to 6 p.m.
Thursday, 4 September 2014: from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.
11.	The six high-level multi-stakeholder partnership dialogues are expected to provide, inter alia, an opportunity for: 
	(a)	Recognizing successful partnerships and initiatives in support of the implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Development States, the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States and the outcomes of the Conference;
	(b)	Launching innovative and concrete partnerships and initiatives between Governments, international and regional organizations, multilateral institutions, major groups, the organizations of the United Nations system, non-governmental organizations, the private sector and civil society to support the advancement of the sustainable development of small island developing States;
	(c)	Interactive and focused discussions on key priorities related to small island developing States. 
12.	The outcomes of the multi-stakeholder partnership dialogues should be reported to the closing plenary meeting of the Conference and included in the final report of the Conference.

C.	Main Committee
13.	A Main Committee, established in accordance with the rules of procedure of the Conference, will meet if necessary in parallel with plenary meetings, except during the opening and closing meetings. The Main Committee will be responsible for finalizing any outstanding matters.

II.	Credentials of representatives to the Conference: appointment of the members of the Credentials Committee
14.	A Credentials Committee will be appointed according to the rules of procedure of the Conference.

III.	Accreditation: institutional stakeholders
15.	Other relevant intergovernmental organizations that were accredited to the World Summit on Sustainable Development, the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, the high-level review meeting on the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States and the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, as well as relevant organizations of the United Nations system, including associate members of the regional commissions, may participate in the deliberations of the Conference, as appropriate, in accordance with the rules of procedure of the Conference. 
16.	In addition, interested intergovernmental organizations that were not accredited to the World Summit on Sustainable Development, the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, the high-level review meeting on the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States or the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development may apply to the Preparatory Committee for accreditation following the established accreditation procedure. Information on accreditation will be available on the Conference website (www.sids2014.org).

IV.	Secretariat
17.	The Secretary-General of the Conference will serve as focal point within the Secretariat of the United Nations for providing support to the organization of the Conference, in cooperation with the host country authorities.

V.	Documentation
18.	In accordance with the practice followed at previous United Nations conferences, the official documentation of the Conference will include documents issued before, during and after the Conference.
19.	In accordance with the practice followed at previous United Nations conferences, it is recommended that the report of the Conference consist of the decisions of the Conference, a brief account of the proceedings and a reportorial account of the work of the Conference and the action taken at the plenary meetings.
20.	Summaries of the plenary meetings and multi-stakeholder partnership dialogues should also be included in the report of the Conference.

VI.	Organization of parallel meetings and other events of the Conference
21.	Parallel meetings and other events, including those of major groups, will be held during the same hours as the plenary meetings and the partnership dialogues, space permitting. Interpretation services will be provided for such meetings, as available.

VII.	Side events
22.	Special events, including briefings, seminars, workshops and panel discussions on issues related to the sustainable development of small island developing States, will be organized by participants in the Conference. Guidelines for organizing special events and the calendar of those events will be made available on the Conference website.

VIII.	Media coverage
23.	Press materials will be prepared by the Department of Public Information of the Secretariat for journalists covering the Conference. In addition, regular press releases will be issued on the results of plenary meetings and other events. All relevant documentation will be made available on the Conference website.
24.	The plenary meetings, multi-stakeholder partnership dialogues and press conferences will be broadcast live to the media area. A programme of special media briefings and press conferences will be announced.

1 Report of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Bridgetown, Barbados, 25 April-6 May 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.94.I.18 and corrigenda), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
2 Ibid., annex II.
3 Report of the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Port Louis, Mauritius, 10-14 January 2005 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.05.II.A.4 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
4 Ibid., annex II.
5 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 2, annex.
6 Resolution 65/2.
7 Resolution 66/288, annex.
8 Resolution 68/6.
9 A/68/316.
10 A/C.2/68/7, annex II.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1345373E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/68/238<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

1
    

1

United NationsA/RES/68/238General AssemblyDistr.: General
23 January 2014Sixty-eighth session
Agenda item 19 (b)

13-45373
*1345373*Please recycle 

A/RES/68/238Follow-up to and implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States

Follow-up to and implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing StatesA/RES/68/238

8/8

7/8

