[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 23 December 2003
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/58/491)]

58/226.	Implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and the strengthening of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 3327 (XXIX) of 16 December 1974, 32/162 of 19 December 1977, 34/115 of 14 December 1979, 56/205 and 56/206 of 21 December 2001 and 57/275 of 20 December 2002,
	Taking note of Economic and Social Council resolutions 2002/38 of 26 July 2002 and 2003/62 of 25 July 2003,
	Recalling the Habitat Agenda1 and the Declaration on Cities and Other Human Settlements in the New Millennium,2
	Recalling also the goal contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration3 of achieving a significant improvement in the lives of at least 100 million slum-dwellers by 2020, as proposed in the Cities Without Slums Initiative, and recalling further the goal contained in the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation")4 to halve, by the year 2015, the proportion of people who are unable to reach or afford safe drinking water and the proportion of people who do not have access to basic sanitation,
	Taking into account the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development5 and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation, as well as the Monterrey Consensus of the International Conference on Financing for Development,6 
	Recognizing that the overall thrust of the new strategic vision of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat) and its emphasis on the two global campaigns on secure tenure and urban governance are strategic points of entry for the effective implementation of the Habitat Agenda, especially for guiding international cooperation in respect of adequate shelter for all and sustainable human settlements development,
	Conscious of the need to achieve greater coherence and effectiveness in the implementation of the Habitat Agenda, the Declaration on Cities and Other Human Settlements in the New Millennium and the relevant internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the Millennium Declaration,
	Recognizing the need for increased and predictable financial contributions to the United Nations Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation in the new millennium to ensure timely, effective and concrete results in the implementation of the Habitat Agenda, the Declaration on Cities and Other Human Settlements in the New Millennium and the relevant internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the Millennium Declaration and the Johannesburg Declaration and Plan of Implementation, particularly in developing countries,
	Welcoming the establishment by the Executive Director of UN-Habitat of a Water and Sanitation Trust Fund as a financing mechanism to support the creation of enabling environments for pro-poor investment in water and sanitation in developing-country cities,
	Commending those countries that have contributed to the United Nations Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation, as indicated in the report of the Secretary-General to the Economic and Social Council,7
	Reiterating the call to the Executive Director of UN-Habitat to increase her efforts to strengthen the Foundation in order to achieve its primary operative objective, as set out in resolution 3327 (XXIX), of supporting the implementation of the Habitat Agenda, including supporting shelter, related infrastructure-development programmes and housing-finance institutions and mechanisms, particularly in developing countries,
	Recalling the decision of the Commission on Sustainable Development at its eleventh session to address the themes of water, sanitation and human settlements in its next review and policy sessions,8
	Noting the efforts by UN-Habitat to forge partnerships with Habitat Agenda partners, other United Nations funds and programmes and international financial institutions, such as the World Bank,
	Recognizing that shelter and human settlements planning and administration are important sectors in humanitarian efforts,
	Expressing its appreciation to the Government of Spain and the city of Barcelona for their willingness to host the second session of the World Urban Forum in 2004 and to the Government of Canada and the city of Vancouver for their willingness to host the third session of the World Urban Forum in 2006,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Governing Council of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat) on the work of its nineteenth session9 and the report of the Secretary-General on the special session of the General Assembly for an overall review and appraisal of the implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and the strengthening of UN-Habitat;10 
	2.	Recognizes that Governments have the primary responsibility for the sound and effective implementation of the Habitat Agenda1 and the Declaration on Cities and Other Human Settlements in the New Millennium,2 and stresses that the international community should fully implement its commitments to support the Governments of developing countries and countries with economies in transition in their efforts, through the provision of the requisite resources, capacity-building, the transfer of technology and the creation of an international enabling environment;
	3.	Encourages Governments to include issues pertaining to shelter and sustainable human settlements and urban poverty in their national development strategies, including poverty reduction strategy papers, where they exist;
	4.	Urges Governments to promote pro-poor investments in services and infrastructure, in particular water and sanitation, in order to improve living environments, in particular in slums and informal settlements;
	5.	Encourages Governments to establish local, national and regional urban observatories and to provide financial and substantive support to UN-Habitat for the further development of methodologies for data collection, analysis and dissemination;
	6.	Also encourages Governments to support and enable the participation of youth in the implementation of the Habitat Agenda through social, cultural and economic activities at the city level and other national- and local-level activities;
	7.	Encourages Governments and UN-Habitat to continue to promote partnerships with local authorities, non-governmental organizations, the private sector and other Habitat Agenda partners, including women's groups and academic and professional groups, in order to empower them, within the legal framework and conditions of each country, to play a more effective role in the provision of adequate shelter for all and sustainable human settlements development in an urbanizing world;
	8.	Encourages UN-Habitat to continue to work closely with other relevant agencies within the United Nations system, in particular members and observers of the United Nations Development Group and the members of the Inter-Agency Standing Committee;11
	9.	Requests UN-Habitat to strengthen further its efforts to make the Cities Alliance initiative an effective means for the implementation of the twin goals of the Habitat Agenda, namely, adequate shelter for all and sustainable human settlements development in an urbanizing world;
	10.	Takes note with appreciation of the efforts by the Cities Alliance partnership between the World Bank and UN-Habitat, and other donor countries, to continue to provide an important forum for policy coordination and development, as well as to provide support for the preparation of pro-poor city development strategies and slum-upgrading programmes within the legal framework and conditions of each country;
	11.	Invites the Secretary-General to incorporate the assessment of the progress towards the target of achieving a significant improvement in the lives of at least 100 million slum-dwellers by 2020 in his report on the review in 2005 of the implementation of the United Nations Millennium Declaration;3
	12.	Welcomes the fund-raising efforts of the Executive Director of UN-Habitat, which realized an increase in the general-purpose contributions of the United Nations Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation for the year 2003;
	13.	Calls for continued financial support to UN-Habitat through increased voluntary contributions to the Foundation, and invites Governments to provide multi-year funding to support programme implementation;
	14.	Requests UN-Habitat to collaborate with the Division for Sustainable Development of the Department of Economic and Social Affairs of the Secretariat in the preparations for the twelfth session of the Commission on Sustainable Development to promote a fruitful discussion on the thematic cluster of issues on water, sanitation and human settlements;
	15.	Requests the Executive Director of UN-Habitat to inform the Governing Council of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme of the results of the discussions on the topics of water, sanitation and human settlements at the twelfth session of the Commission on Sustainable Development;
	16.	Notes that the upcoming sessions of the World Urban Forum, a non-legislative technical forum, which will be held in Barcelona in 2004 and in Vancouver in 2006, will offer an opportunity to experts to exchange experiences, best practices and lessons learned in the field of human settlements;
	17.	Invites donor countries to support the participation of representatives of the developing countries in the second and future sessions of the World Urban Forum;
	18.	Requests the Secretary-General to keep the resource needs of UN-Habitat and the United Nations Office at Nairobi under review so as to permit the delivery, in an effective manner, of necessary services to UN-Habitat and the other United Nations organs and organizations in Nairobi;
	19.	Requests UN-Habitat, as the focal point for human settlements development and for coordination of human settlements activities within the United Nations system, to work towards coordination of human settlements issues as inputs to the overall coordination of humanitarian efforts, including through its participation in the consideration by the Economic and Social Council, in the near future, of the issue of the transition from relief to development;
	20.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session on the implementation of the present resolution;
	21.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-ninth session an item entitled "Special session of the General Assembly for an overall review and appraisal of the implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and the strengthening of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)".
78th plenary meeting
23 December 2003
1 Report of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II), Istanbul, 3-14 June 1996 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.97.IV.6), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
2 Resolution S-25/2, annex.
3 See resolution 55/2.
4 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 2, annex.
5 Ibid., resolution 1, annex.
6 Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico,
18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
7 E/2003/76.
8 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2003, Supplement No. 9 (E/2003/29), chap. I, sect. A.
9 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 8 (A/58/8).
10 A/58/178.
11 Established pursuant to resolution 46/182 of 19 December 1991.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0350808E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/58/226<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

5
    

5

United NationsA/RES/58/226General AssemblyDistr.: General
25 February 2004Fifty-eighth session
Agenda item 101

03 50808

A/RES/58/226

A/RES/58/226

2

3

