[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 14 July 2005
[without reference to a Main Committee (A/59/L.63 and Add.1)]
		59/311.	International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States


	The General Assembly,
	Reaffirming the Declaration of Barbados1 and the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States,2 adopted by the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, and recalling its resolution 49/122 of 19 December 1994 on the Global Conference,
	Recalling Agenda 21,3 the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development4 and the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation"),5 in particular the emphasis given to small island developing States in chapter VII of the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation, as well as the references to the specific needs of small island developing States contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration6 and the Monterrey Consensus of the International Conference on Financing for Development,7
	Welcoming the adoption by the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, held in Port Louis from 10 to 14 January 2005, of the Mauritius Declaration8 and the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States ("Mauritius Strategy for Implementation")9 on 14 January 2005,
	Expressing its satisfaction that the International Meeting and its preparatory process provided for the active participation of all States Members of the United Nations and members of the specialized agencies, observers and various intergovernmental organizations, including the funds, programmes and specialized agencies of the United Nations system, as well as the major groups representing all the regions of the world,
	Noting with interest the partnership initiatives announced by some Governments, international organizations and major groups at the International Meeting, as well as those already undertaken,
	Welcoming the decision taken by the Commission on Sustainable Development at its thirteenth session10 to devote one day of the review sessions of the Commission to the review of the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation, focusing on that year's thematic cluster, as well as on any new developments in the sustainable development efforts of small island developing States using existing modalities, and to request the Secretary-General to submit a report to the Commission at its review session on progress and obstacles to sustainable development in small island developing States, including recommendations to enhance the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy,
	Recognizing that it is crucial to mobilize resources from all sources for the effective implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation,
	Expressing its profound gratitude to the Government and the people of Mauritius for the excellent arrangements made for hosting the International Meeting, for the hospitality extended to the participants and for the facilities, staff and services placed at their disposal,
	Expressing its appreciation to the Secretariat of the United Nations, including the Secretary-General of the International Meeting, the specialized agencies, the United Nations regional commissions, funds and programmes, and donor countries as well as those countries that contributed to the Trust Fund for Small Island Developing States, for their contribution to the success of the International Meeting,
	Also expressing its appreciation to the Facilitator of the outcomes of the International Meeting,
	Having considered the report of the International Meeting,11
	1.	Takes note of the note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States;12
	2.	Endorses the Mauritius Declaration8 and the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States;9
	3.	Welcomes the renewed commitment of the international community to the implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States;2
	4.	Urges Governments and all relevant international and regional organizations, United Nations funds and programmes, the specialized agencies, regional economic commissions, international financial institutions, the Global Environment Facility, as well as other intergovernmental organizations and major groups, to take timely actions to ensure the effective implementation of and follow-up to the Mauritius Declaration and the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation;
	5.	Calls for the full and effective implementation of the commitments, programmes and targets adopted at the International Meeting and, to this end, for fulfilment of the provisions for the means of implementation, as contained in the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation;
	6.	Encourages the implementation of partnership initiatives, within the framework of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation, in support of the sustainable development of small island developing States;
	7.	Recommends that the outcomes of the International Meeting be taken into consideration at the High-level Plenary Meeting of the General Assembly, to be held from 14 to 16 September 2005, and in its preparatory process;
	8.	Requests the Secretary-General, through the Department of Economic and Social Affairs of the Secretariat, to articulate a plan with recommendations for action and proposed activities for the coordinated and coherent implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation by the relevant United Nations bodies, the specialized agencies, regional commissions and other organizations of the United Nations system within their respective mandates, and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its sixtieth session;
	9.	Supports the convening by the Department of Economic and Social Affairs of regional meetings of small island developing States in 2005 or 2006, in partnership with relevant regional organizations and stakeholders, for the follow-up to the implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation, funded from voluntary contributions, and in this regard encourages Member States to contribute to the Trust Fund for Small Island Developing States;
	10.	Reiterates its request to the Secretary-General to strengthen the Small Island Developing States Unit of the Department of Economic and Social Affairs, as called for in its resolutions 57/262 of 20 December 2002, 58/213 A of 23 December 2003 and 59/229 of 22 December 2004 and taking into account paragraph 7 of the present resolution, and urges the Secretary-General to ensure that the Unit is sufficiently and sustainably staffed without delay to undertake its broad range of mandated functions with a view to facilitating the full and effective implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation, within existing resources, including by redeploying resources;
	11.	Requests the relevant agencies of the United Nations system, within their respective mandates, to mainstream the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation further in their work programmes and to establish a focal point for small island developing States within their respective secretariats;
	12.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixtieth session under the item entitled "Sustainable development", a sub-item entitled "Follow-up to and implementation of the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States".13

113th plenary meeting
14 July 2005
1 Report of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Bridgetown, Barbados, 25 April-6 May 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.94.I.18 and corrigenda), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
2 Ibid., annex II.
3 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigenda), vol. I: Resolutions adopted by the Conference, resolution 1, annex II.
4 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa,
26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
5 Ibid., resolution 2, annex.
6 See resolution 55/2.
7 Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico, 18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
8 Report of the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Port Louis, Mauritius, 10-14 January 2005 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.05.II.A.4 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
9 Ibid., annex II.
10 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2005, Supplement No. 9 (E/2005/29), resolution 13/1.
11 Report of the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Port Louis, Mauritius, 10-14 January 2005 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.05.II.A.4 and corrigendum).
12 A/59/872.
13 This replaces the sub-item entitled "Further implementation of the outcome of the Global Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States and follow-up to the outcomes of the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action", which the General Assembly had decided, in its resolution 59/229 of 22 December 2004, to include in the provisional agenda of its sixtieth session.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0449579E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/59/311<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

1
    

1

United NationsA/RES/59/311General AssemblyDistr.: General
5 August 2005Fifty-ninth session
Agenda item 85 (b)

04-49579

A/RES/59/311

A/RES/59/311

2

3

