[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 19 December 2011
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/66/463)]
66/182.	United Nations African Institute for the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 65/231 of 21 December 2010 and all other relevant resolutions,
	Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General,1
	Bearing in mind that weaknesses in crime prevention lead to subsequent difficulties at the level of crime control mechanisms, and bearing in mind also the urgent need to establish effective crime prevention strategies for Africa, as well as the importance of law enforcement agencies and the judiciary at the regional and subregional levels,
	Aware of the devastating impact of new and more dynamic crime trends on the national economies of African States, such as the high levels of transnational organized crime being recorded in Africa, including the utilization of digital technology to commit all types of cybercrime, illicit trafficking in cultural property and drugs, piracy and money-laundering, and of the fact that crime is a major obstacle to harmonious and sustainable development in Africa,
	Noting with concern that in most African countries the existing criminal justice system does not have sufficiently skilled personnel and adequate infrastructure and is therefore ill-equipped to manage the emergence of new crime trends, and acknowledging the challenges that Africa faces in litigation processes and the management of correctional institutions,
	Recognizing that the United Nations African Institute for the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders is a focal point for all professional efforts aimed at promoting the active cooperation and collaboration of Governments, academics, institutions and scientific and professional organizations and experts in crime prevention and criminal justice,
	Bearing in mind the Revised African Union Plan of Action on Drug Control and Crime Prevention (2007-2012), aimed at encouraging Member States to participate in and own the regional initiatives for effective crime prevention and good governance and strengthened justice administration,
	Recognizing the importance of promoting sustainable development as a complement to crime prevention strategies,
	Emphasizing the need to create necessary coalitions with all partners in the process of achieving effective crime prevention policies,
	Noting that the financial situation of the Institute has greatly affected its capacity to deliver its services to African Member States in an effective and comprehensive manner,
	1.	Commends the United Nations African Institute for the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders for its efforts to promote and coordinate regional technical cooperation activities related to crime prevention and criminal justice systems in Africa;
	2.	Also commends the initiative of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime in strengthening its working relationship with the Institute by supporting and involving the Institute in the implementation of a number of activities, including those contained in the Revised African Union Plan of Action on Drug Control and Crime Prevention (2007-2012), on strengthening the rule of law and criminal justice systems in Africa;
	3.	Reiterates the need to strengthen further the capacity of the Institute to support national mechanisms for crime prevention and criminal justice in African countries;
	4.	Notes the efforts of the Institute to establish contacts with organizations in those countries which are promoting crime prevention programmes and its maintenance of close links with regional and subregional political entities, such as the African Union Commission, the East African Community, the Commission of the Economic Community of West African States, the Intergovernmental Authority on Development and the Southern African Development Community;
	5.	Encourages the Institute, in cooperation with relevant United Nations agencies, to take into account the various planning authorities in the region that focus attention on the coordination of activities that promote development based on sustainable agricultural production and preservation of the environment in developing its crime prevention strategies;
	6.	Urges the States members of the Institute to continue to make every possible effort to meet their obligations to the Institute;
	7.	Welcomes the decision of the Governing Board of the Institute, at its eleventh ordinary session, held in Nairobi on 27 and 28 April 2011, to carry out a review of the Institute to ensure that it can fulfil its mandate and assume a more prominent role in dealing with existing crime;
	8.	Also welcomes the introduction by the Institute of a cost-sharing initiative in its execution of various programmes with Member States, partners and United Nations entities;
	9.	Urges all Member States and non-governmental organizations and the international community to continue adopting concrete practical measures to support the Institute in the development of the requisite capacity and in the implementation of its programmes and activities aimed at strengthening crime prevention and criminal justice systems in Africa;
	10.	Urges all States that have not already done so to consider ratifying or acceding to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the Protocols thereto,2 as well as the United Nations Convention against Corruption;3
	11.	Requests the Secretary-General to intensify efforts to mobilize all relevant entities of the United Nations system to provide the necessary financial and technical support to the Institute to enable it to fulfil its mandate, bearing in mind that the precarious financial situation of the Institute greatly undermines its capacity to deliver services effectively;
	12.	Also requests the Secretary-General to continue his efforts to mobilize the financial resources necessary to maintain the Institute with the core professional staff required to enable it to function effectively in the fulfilment of its mandated obligations;
	13.	Encourages the Institute to consider focusing on specific and general vulnerabilities of each programme country and to maximize the use of available initiatives to address crime problems with existing funds, as well as available capacity, by creating useful coalitions with regional and local institutions;
	14.	Calls upon the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime to continue to work closely with the Institute;
	15.	Requests the Secretary-General to enhance the promotion of regional cooperation, coordination and collaboration in the fight against crime, especially in its transnational dimension, which cannot be dealt with adequately by national action alone;
	16.	Also requests the Secretary-General to continue making concrete proposals, including for the provision of additional core professional staff, to strengthen the programmes and activities of the Institute and to report to the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session on the implementation of the present resolution.

89th plenary meeting
19 December 2011
1 A/66/131.
2 United Nations, Treaty Series, vols. 2225, 2237, 2241 and 2326, No. 39574.
3 Ibid., vol. 2349, No. 42146.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1146974E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/66/182<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/66/182General AssemblyDistr.: General
30 March 2012Sixty-sixth session
Agenda item 107

11-46974
*1146974*

A/RES/66/182

A/RES/66/182

2

3

