[hj1]UNITED									A
NATIONS



             General Assembly


                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/54/144
                                                                          22 February 2000

                                                                          



Fifty-fourth session
Agenda item 111


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/54/600)]


54/144.	Follow-up to the Regional Conference to Address the Problems of Refugees, Displaced Persons, Other Forms of Involuntary Displacement and Returnees in the Countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States and Relevant Neighbouring States

    The General Assembly,

    Recalling its resolutions 48/113 of 20 December 1993, 49/173 of 23 December 1994, 50/151 of 21 December 1995, 51/70 of 12 December 1996, 52/102 of 12 December 1997 and, in particular, 53/123 of 9 December 1998,

    Having considered the reports of the Secretary-General1 and of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees,2


    Recognizing the ongoing acuteness of the migration and displacement problems in the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States and the necessity to follow up the Regional Conference to Address the Problems of Refugees, Displaced Persons, Other Forms of Involuntary Displacement and Returnees in the Countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States and Relevant Neighbouring States and the subsequent conclusions of the Executive Committee of the Programme of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees,3

    Reaffirming the view of the Conference that the primary responsibility for tackling population displacement problems lies with the affected countries themselves and that these issues are to be regarded as national priorities, while at the same time recognizing the need for enhancing international support for the national efforts of the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States aimed at the effective implementation of such responsibilities within the framework of the Programme of Action adopted by the Conference,4

    Noting with satisfaction the efforts of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the International Organization for Migration and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe in developing strategies and practical tools for more effective capacity-building in countries of origin and enhancing programmes to address the needs of various categories of concern to the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States,

    Welcoming the contributions of those countries that responded to the 1999 appeal launched by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Organization for Migration, and appreciating this tangible encouragement to the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States and to further inter-agency cooperation,

    Taking note of the positive results emanating from the implementation of the Programme of Action adopted by the Conference,

    Bearing in mind that a number of the provisions of the Programme of Action are still at the stage of practical formulation and cannot be achieved by 2000,

    Taking into account the decision made by the steering group of the Conference to establish a working group to address the issue of follow-up to the Conference,

    Convinced of the necessity of continuing to maintain the regional approach for the achievement of effective implementation of the Programme of Action,

    Recalling that the protection and promotion of human rights and the strengthening of democratic institutions are essential to prevent mass population displacement,

    Mindful that the effective implementation of the recommendations contained in the Programme of Action should be facilitated and can be ensured only through cooperation and coordinated activities undertaken in this respect by all interested States, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations and other actors,
    
    Noting and reaffirming the importance of the 1951 Convention5 and the 1967 Protocol6 relating to the Status of Refugees,

    1.	Takes note of the reports of the Secretary-General1 and of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees;2

    2.	Calls upon the Governments of the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States, in cooperation with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the International Organization for Migration and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, to strengthen their efforts and mutual cooperation relating to the follow-up to the Regional Conference to Address the Problems of Refugees, Displaced Persons, Other Forms of Involuntary Displacement and Returnees in the Countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States and Relevant Neighbouring States, and welcomes the positive results achieved by them in the implementation of the Programme of Action adopted by the Conference;4

    3.	Endorses the broad consensus reached by the participants in the steering group of the Conference that implementation of the issues outlined in the Programme of Action should be continued and that consideration should be given to a continuation of the follow-up to the Conference after 2000;

    4.	Calls upon the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States and other interested States, in cooperation with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the International Organization for Migration and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, to elaborate concrete proposals for a mechanism for possible follow-up to the Conference after 2000;

    5.	Invites all States that have not yet done so to accede to and implement fully the 1951 Convention5 and the 1967 Protocol6 relating to the Status of Refugees, while welcoming the accession of Georgia and Kazakhstan to the Convention;

    6.	Calls upon States and interested international organizations, in a spirit of solidarity and burden-sharing, to provide appropriate forms and levels of support for the practical implementation of the Programme of Action;

    7.	Invites international financial and other institutions to contribute to the financing of projects and programmes within the framework of the implementation of the Programme of Action;

    8.	Invites the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States to intensify bilateral, subregional and regional cooperation in maintaining the balance of commitments and interests in the process leading up to the implementation of the Programme of Action;

    9.	Calls upon the Governments of the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States to continue to strengthen their commitment to the principles underpinning the Programme of Action, in particular principles of human rights and refugee protection, and to lend high-level political support to ensure progress in its implementation;


    10.	Invites the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Organization for Migration to enhance their mutual relationship with other key international actors, such as the Council of Europe, the European Commission and human rights, development and financial institutions, in order better to address the wide-ranging and complex issues in the Programme of Action;

    11.	Welcomes the progress made in building civil society, in particular through the development of the non-governmental sector and the development of cooperation between non-governmental organizations and the Governments of a number of countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States, and notes in this regard the relationship between the progress made in implementing the Programme of Action and the success in promoting civil society, especially in the field of human rights;

    12.	Encourages the involvement of intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations in the follow-up to the Conference, and invites them to demonstrate stronger support for the process of multinational constructive dialogue among a wide range of countries concerned and further action with a view to the full implementation of the recommendations of the Conference;

    13.	Emphasizes the necessity of fulfilling the recommendations contained in the Programme of Action relating to ensuring respect for human rights as an important factor in the management of migration flows, the consolidation of democracy, the rule of law and stability;

    14.	Recognizes the importance of taking measures, on the basis of strict adherence to all of the principles of international law, including humanitarian law and international human rights standards, to prevent situations that lead to new flows of refugees, displaced persons and other forms of involuntary displacement;

    15.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session on the progress achieved in the follow-up to the Conference;

    16.	Decides to continue its consideration of the question at its fifty-fifth session.


	 83rd plenary meeting
	17 December 1999

1 A/54/286.
2 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 12 (A/54/12).
3 Ibid., Fifty-first Session, Supplement No. 12A and corrigendum (A/51/12/Add.1 and Corr.1), sect. III.B; ibid., Fifty-second Session, Supplement No. 12A (A/52/12/Add.1), sect. III.B; ibid., Fifty-third Session, Supplement No. 12A (A/53/12/Add.1), sect. III.C; and ibid., Fifty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 12A (A/54/12/Add.1), chap. III, sect. B.
4 A/51/341 and Corr.1, appendix.
5 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 189, No. 2545.
6 Ibid., vol. 606, No. 8791.
[hj1]
<<ODS JOB NO>>N0029482E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/54/144<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------


00 29482	/...


00 29482	/...

A/RES/53/
Page 


	A/RES/54/144
	Page 


A/RES/53/
Page 



	/...


	/...

A/RES/54/144
Page 




	A/RES/54/144
	Page 








