[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/57/532/Add.1)]
57/253.	World Summit on Sustainable Development


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 55/199 of 20 December 2000 and 56/226 of 24 December 2001,
	Recalling also the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development,1 Agenda 212 and the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21,3
	Having considered the report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, held in Johannesburg, South Africa, from 26 August to 4 September 2002, 4 
	Reaffirming, in this regard, the commitment to achieving the internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration5 and in the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and international agreements since 1992,
	Welcoming the adoption by the Summit of the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development6 and the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation")7 on 4 September 2002,
	Expressing its satisfaction that the Summit and its Preparatory Committee provided for the active participation of all States Members of the United Nations and members of the specialized agencies, observers and various intergovernmental organizations, including the funds, programmes and specialized agencies of the United Nations system, at the highest level, as well as the major groups representing all the regions of the world,
	Reaffirming the need to ensure a balance between economic development, social development and environmental protection as interdependent and mutually reinforcing pillars of sustainable development,
	Reaffirming also that poverty eradication, changing unsustainable patterns of production and consumption, and protecting and managing the natural resource base of economic and social development are overarching objectives of, and essential requirements for, sustainable development,
	Recognizing that good governance within each country and at the international level is essential for sustainable development,
	Noting with interest the partnership initiatives voluntarily undertaken by some Governments, international organizations and major groups, and announced at the Summit,
	Expressing its profound gratitude to the Governments and the peoples of Indonesia and South Africa for hosting, respectively, the fourth Preparatory Committee meeting and the Summit, for the excellent arrangements, for the hospitality extended to participants and for the facilities, staff and services placed at their disposal,
	1.	Takes note with satisfaction of the report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development;4
	2.	Endorses the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development6 and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation;7
	3.	Decides to adopt sustainable development as a key element of the overarching framework for United Nations activities, in particular for achieving the internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration,5 and to give overall political direction to the implementation of Agenda 212 and its review;
	4.	Urges Governments and all relevant international and regional organizations, the Economic and Social Council, United Nations funds, programmes and regional economic commissions, specialized agencies, international financial institutions, the Global Environment Facility, as well as other intergovernmental organizations and major groups, to take timely actions to ensure the effective implementation of and follow-up to the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation;
	5.	Encourages the implementation of partnership initiatives voluntarily undertaken by some Governments, international organizations and major groups, and calls for further discussion of this matter within the Commission on Sustainable Development;
	6.	Calls for the implementation of the commitments, programmes and time-bound targets adopted at the Summit and, to this end, for the fulfilment of the provisions of the means of implementation, as contained in the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation; 
	7.	Requests the Economic and Social Council to ensure that the Commission on Sustainable Development holds an organizational meeting of its next session in January 2003 and its session in April/May 2003; 
	8.	Requests the Secretary-General to prepare a report containing proposals on the modalities of the future work of the Commission, taking into account the decisions contained in the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation; 
	9.	Requests the Economic and Social Council to implement the provisions of the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation relevant to its mandate and, in particular, to promote the implementation of Agenda 21 by strengthening system-wide coordination;
	10.	Requests the Secretary-General to take into full account the outcomes of the Summit, in particular the decisions made on the institutional framework for sustainable development as contained in chapter XI of the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation, in the ongoing process of reform of the United Nations and in his contribution to the integrated and coordinated implementation of and follow-up to the outcomes of major United Nations conferences and summits in the economic, social and related fields;
	11.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-eighth session an item entitled "Implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the outcomes of the World Summit on Sustainable Development", and requests the Secretary-General, at that session, to submit a report on the implementation of the present resolution.

78th plenary meeting
20 December 2002
1 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro,
3-14 June 1992 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigenda), vol. I: Resolutions adopted by the Conference, resolution 1, annex I.
2 Ibid., annex II.
3 Resolution S-19/2, annex.
4 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum).
5 See resolution 55/2.
6 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
7 Ibid., resolution 2, annex.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0255606E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/57/253<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/57/253General AssemblyDistr.: General
21 February 2003Fifty-seventh session
Agenda item 87 (a)

02 55606

A/RES/57/253

A/RES/57/253

2

3

