[def1]UNITED									A
NATIONS



             General Assembly


                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/53/119
                                                                          5 February 1999

                                                                          



Fifty-third session
Agenda item 103


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/53/618)]


53/119.  Improvement of the status of women in the Secretariat

    The General Assembly,

    Recalling Articles 1 and 101 of the Charter of the United Nations, as well as Article 8, which provides that the United Nations shall place no restrictions on the eligibility of men and women to participate in any capacity and under conditions of equality in its principal and subsidiary organs,

    Recalling also the goal, contained in the Platform for Action adopted by the Fourth World Conference on Women,1 of the achievement of overall gender equality, particularly at the Professional level and above, by the year 2000,

    Recalling further its resolution 52/96 of 12 December 1997 on the improvement of the status of women in the Secretariat,

    Welcoming the progress made in improving the representation of women at the D-1 level and above, in particular the achievement of the interim goal set in its resolution 45/239 C of 21 December 1990 of a 25 per cent participation rate of women in posts at the D-1 level and above, but concerned that the representation of women at those levels remains significantly low,


    Concerned at the incremental pace at which the overall representation of women in the Secretariat has increased and at the decline in the percentages of women promoted to and appointed at the P-5 level,

    1.	Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General and the recommendations contained therein,2 takes note of the statement of the Administrative Committee on Coordination on gender equality and mainstreaming in the work of the United Nations system: a commitment for action, adopted by the Committee in March 1998,3 and requests the Secretary-General to report in the year 2000 to the Commission on the Status of Women, in its capacity as the preparatory committee for the high-level plenary review to appraise and assess the progress achieved in the implementation of the Nairobi Forward-looking Strategies for the Advancement of Women4 and the Platform for Action of the Fourth World Conference on Women,1 to be convened by the General Assembly in the year 2000, on progress made to achieve the goals outlined in the statement;

    2.	Reaffirms the goal of 50/50 gender distribution by the year 2000 in all categories of posts within the United Nations system, especially at the D-1 level and above, with full respect for the principle of equitable geographical distribution, in conformity with Article 101 of the Charter of the United Nations, and also taking into account the continuing lack of representation or under-representation of women from certain countries, in particular from developing countries as well as countries with economies in transition;

    3.	Welcomes the ongoing personal commitment of the Secretary-General to meeting the goal of gender equality and his assurance that gender balance will be given the highest priority in his continuing efforts to bring about a new management culture in the Organization, which will include full implementation of the special measures outlined in his report;

    4.	Calls upon the Secretary-General to implement fully and to monitor the strategic plan of action for the improvement of the status of women in the Secretariat (1995-2000)5 in order to achieve the goal of 50/50 gender distribution by the year 2000, especially at the D-1 level and above;

    5.	Requests the Secretary-General to ensure that individual managers are held accountable for implementing the strategic plan within their areas of responsibility;

    6.	Encourages the Secretary-General to appoint more women as special representatives and envoys and to pursue good offices on his behalf, especially in matters related to peacekeeping, peace-building, preventive diplomacy and economic and social development, and in operational activities, including resident coordinators, as well as to appoint more women to other high-level positions;


    7.	Requests the Secretary-General to ensure that heads of departments and offices develop gender action plans that establish concrete strategies for the achievement of gender balance in individual departments and offices, with full respect for the principle of equitable geographical distribution and in conformity with Article 101 of the Charter, so as to ensure, as far as possible, that the appointment and promotion of women will be not less than 50 per cent until the goal of 50/50 gender distribution is met;

    8.	Also requests the Secretary-General to continue his work to create a gender-sensitive work environment supportive of the needs of his staff, both women and men, including through the development of policies for flexible working time, flexible workplace arrangements, child-care and elder-care needs, as well as through the expansion of gender-sensitivity training in all departments and offices;

    9.	Further requests the Secretary-General to develop further the policy against harassment, including sexual harassment, and to issue detailed guidelines, based on the results of the comprehensive inter-agency survey;

    10.	Requests the Secretary-General to enable the Focal Point for Women in the Office of the Special Adviser on Gender Issues and Advancement of Women to monitor effectively and facilitate progress in the implementation of the strategic plan, including by ensuring access to the information required to carry out that work;

    11.	Strongly encourages Member States to support the efforts of the United Nations and the specialized agencies to achieve the goal of 50/50 gender distribution, especially at the D-1 level and above, by identifying and regularly submitting more women candidates for appointment to intergovernmental, judicial and expert bodies and encouraging more women to apply for positions within the Secretariat, the specialized agencies, funds and programmes and the regional commissions, including in areas in which women are under-represented, such as peacekeeping, peace-building and other non-traditional areas;

    12.	Also strongly encourages Member States to identify women candidates for assignment to peacekeeping missions and to improve the representation of women in military and civilian police contingents;

    13.	Requests the Secretary-General to report on the implementation of the present resolution, including by providing statistics on the number and percentage of women in all organizational units and at all levels throughout the United Nations system and on the implementation of gender action plans, to the Commission on the Status of Women at its forty-third session and to the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session.


	85th plenary meeting
	9 December 1998

1 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
2 A/53/376.
3 ACC/1998/4, para. 63.
4 Report of the World Conference to Review and Appraise the Achievements of the United Nations Decade for Women: Equality, Development and Peace, Nairobi, 15-26 July 1985 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.85.IV.10), chap. I, sect. A.
5 A/49/587 and Corr.1, sect. IV.
[def1]
<<ODS JOB NO>>N9976489E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/53/119<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

A/RES/53/119
Page 2





99-76489	/...


99-76489	/...

A/RES/53/119
Page 


	A/RES/53/119
	Page 



	/...


	/...





