[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 20 December 2010
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/65/440)]
65/173.	Promotion of ecotourism for poverty eradication and 
environment protection


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling the 2005 World Summit Outcome,1 
	Recalling also the United Nations Millennium Declaration,2 the Monterrey Consensus of the International Conference on Financing for Development,3 the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development,4 the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation"),5 the Doha Declaration on Financing for Development: outcome document of the Follow-up International Conference on Financing for Development to Review the Implementation of the Monterrey Consensus,6 the Outcome of the Conference on the World Financial and Economic Crisis and Its Impact on Development7 and the outcome document of the High-level Plenary Meeting of the General Assembly on the Millennium Development Goals,8 
	Recalling further its resolution 53/200 of 15 December 1998 entitled "Proclamation of 2002 as the International Year of Ecotourism",
	Stressing that poverty is a multifaceted problem that requires a multifaceted and integrated approach in addressing its economic, political, social, environmental and institutional dimensions at all levels,
	Stressing also that ecotourism can, within the framework of sustainable tourism, contribute to the fight against poverty, the protection of the environment and the promotion of sustainable development,
	Welcoming the efforts of the World Tourism Organization, the United Nations Environment Programme, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and the Convention on Biological Diversity to promote ecotourism and sustainable tourism worldwide,
	Welcoming also the efforts of the Marrakech Process on sustainable consumption and production, and in particular its task force on sustainable tourism development, as a cross-sectoral example of more sustainable consumption and production practices,
	Noting the initiatives launched and the events organized at the subregional, regional and international levels in the field of ecotourism and sustainable development,
	1.	Recognizes that the development of ecotourism, within the framework of sustainable tourism, can have a positive impact on income generation, job creation and education, and thus on the fight against poverty and hunger, and can contribute directly to achieving the internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals;
	2.	Emphasizes the need to maximize the economic, social and environmental benefits stemming from ecotourism activities in all countries, particularly developing countries, including African countries, the least developed countries and small island developing States; 
	3.	Also emphasizes that ecotourism can contribute to sustainable development, in particular environment protection, and improve the well-being of local and indigenous communities;
	4.	Recognizes that ecotourism creates significant opportunities for the conservation, protection and sustainable use of natural areas by encouraging local and indigenous communities in host countries and tourists alike to preserve and respect the natural and cultural heritage;
	5.	Also recognizes the potential of ecotourism to reduce poverty by improving individual livelihoods in local communities and to generate resources for community development projects;
	6.	Underlines, in this regard, the importance of establishing, at the national level and in accordance with national priorities, appropriate guidelines and regulations for promoting and supporting ecotourism and minimizing its potential negative impact, and encourages Member States to promote investment in ecotourism, in accordance with their national legislation, which may include creating small- and medium-sized enterprises and facilitating access to finance, including through microcredit initiatives for the poor, local and indigenous communities in areas with high ecotourism potential, including rural areas;
	7.	Also underlines the importance of conducting an environmental impact assessment, in accordance with national legislation, for the development of ecotourism opportunities;
	8.	Stresses that indigenous cultures, traditions and knowledge, in all their aspects, are to be fully considered, respected and promoted in ecotourism policy development, and underlines the importance of promoting the full participation and involvement of local and indigenous communities in decisions that affect them and of integrating indigenous and local knowledge, heritage and values in ecotourism initiatives, as appropriate; 
	9.	Emphasizes the need for effective measures in the context of ecotourism initiatives to ensure the full empowerment of women, including equal participation of women and men at all levels and in decision-making processes in all areas;
	10.	Calls upon the United Nations system, in the context of the global campaign for the Millennium Development Goals, to promote ecotourism as an instrument that can contribute to achieving those Goals, in particular the Goals of eradicating extreme poverty and of ensuring environmental sustainability, and to support the efforts and policies of developing countries in this field;
	11.	Encourages the regional and international financial institutions to provide adequate support to programmes and projects related to ecotourism, taking into account the economic and environmental benefits of such activities; 
	12.	Recognizes the role of North-South cooperation in promoting ecotourism as a means to achieve economic growth, to reduce inequalities and to improve living standards in developing countries, and also recognizes that South-South and triangular cooperation, as complements to North-South cooperation, have potential for promoting ecotourism;
	13.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, in collaboration with the World Tourism Organization and other relevant United Nations agencies and programmes, a report on the implementation of the present resolution, including recommendations on ways and means to promote ecotourism as a tool for fighting poverty and promoting sustainable development.

69th plenary meeting
20 December 2010
1 See resolution 60/1.
2 See resolution 55/2.
3 Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico, 18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
4 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992, vol. I, Resolutions Adopted by the Conference (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum), resolution 1, annex I.
5 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 2, annex.
6 Resolution 63/239, annex.
7 Resolution 63/303, annex.
8 See resolution 65/1.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1052292E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/65/173<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/65/173General AssemblyDistr.: General
24 January 2011Sixty-fifth session
Agenda item 24

10-52292
*1052292*

A/RES/65/173

A/RES/65/173

2

3

