[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 19 December 2008
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/63/414/Add.5)]
63/218.	Implementation of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly 
in Africa


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 58/211 of 23 December 2003, 61/202 of 20 December 2006, 62/193 of 19 December 2007 and other resolutions relating to the implementation of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa,1
	Recalling also the 2005 World Summit Outcome,2
	Reasserting its commitment to combating and reversing desertification and land degradation in arid, semi-arid and dry sub-humid areas, consistent with articles 1, 2 and 3 of the Convention, and to mitigating the effect of drought, eradicating extreme poverty, promoting sustainable development and improving the livelihoods of people affected by drought and/or desertification, taking into account the ten-year strategic plan and framework to enhance the implementation of the Convention (2008-2018),3
	Determined to build upon the momentum and to boost the spirit of international solidarity generated by the designation of 2006 as the International Year of Deserts and Desertification, and welcoming the adoption of the ten-year strategic plan and framework, 
	Reaffirming the universal membership of the Convention, and acknowledging that desertification, land degradation and drought are problems of a global dimension in that they affect all regions of the world, 
	Emphasizing that desertification, land degradation and drought seriously threaten the ability of developing countries to achieve the internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals, and recognizing that the timely and effective implementation of the Convention would help to achieve these goals, 
	Noting the need for enhanced cooperation among the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change4 and the Convention on Biological Diversity5 (the "Rio Conventions"), while respecting their individual mandates, concerned by the negative impacts that desertification, land degradation, loss of biodiversity and climate change have on each other, and recognizing the potential benefits of complementarities in addressing these problems in a mutually supportive manner, 
	Reaffirming the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation"),6 which recognizes the Convention to Combat Desertification as one of the tools for poverty eradication, 
	Recognizing the need to provide the secretariat of the Convention with stable, adequate and predictable resources in order to enable it to continue to discharge its responsibilities in an efficient and timely manner,
	Welcoming the decision of the Commission on Sustainable Development at its eleventh session to consider, inter alia, the issue of desertification and drought during its sixteenth and seventeenth sessions,7
	Welcoming also the fact that the Commission on Sustainable Development at its sixteenth session convened an intergovernmental forum to review some topics that are relevant to the Convention in preparation for policy decisions on those topics by the Commission at its seventeenth session, 
	Expressing its deep appreciation to the Government of Germany for hosting the High-level Policy Dialogue in Bonn on 27 May 2008,
	Expressing its deep appreciation also to the Government of Turkey for hosting the seventh session of the Committee for the Review of the Implementation of the Convention and the first special session of the Committee on Science and Technology in Istanbul from 3 to 14 November 2008, 
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa;8
	2.	Reaffirms its resolve to support and strengthen the implementation of the Convention1 with a view to addressing causes of desertification and land degradation, as well as poverty resulting from land degradation, through, inter alia, the mobilization of adequate and predictable financial resources, the transfer of technology and capacity-building at all levels;
	3.	Reaffirms its decision to declare the decade 2010-2020 as the United Nations Decade for Deserts and the Fight against Desertification;9
	4.	Continues to support the efforts of the Executive Secretary of the Convention to continue the administrative renewal and reform of the secretariat and to realign its functions in order to fully implement the recommendations of the Joint Inspection Unit and bring them into line with the ten-year strategic plan and framework to enhance the implementation of the Convention (2008-2018);3
	5.	Notes the request made for an assessment of the Global Mechanism by the Joint Inspection Unit,10 and looks forward to its findings, which are to be submitted to the Conference of the Parties at its ninth session; 
	6.	Reiterates its call upon Governments, where appropriate, in collaboration with relevant multilateral organizations, including the Global Environment Facility implementation agencies, to integrate desertification and land degradation into their plans and strategies for sustainable development; 
	7.	Invites the affected countries to prepare national strategies for the effective implementation of sustainable land management, and invites donors to support such efforts, on request, and in accordance with all agreed commitments on aid effectiveness;
	8.	Notes the ongoing work of the Joint Liaison Group of the secretariats and offices of the relevant subsidiary bodies of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change,4 the Convention on Biological Diversity5 and the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa, and encourages continuing cooperation in order to promote complementarities in the work of the secretariats, while respecting their independent legal status; 
	9.	Recognizes the potential of the Convention to Combat Desertification to contribute to addressing global food security, including by protecting land from becoming degraded and mitigating the effects of drought in arid, semi-arid and dry sub-humid areas, in order to offer new economic opportunities for enhancing rural development, agricultural productivity and food security for impoverished populations living in those areas; 
	10.	Invites developed countries that are parties to the Convention and other Governments, multilateral organizations, the private sector and other relevant organizations to make resources available to affected developing countries for the implementation of the ten-year strategic plan and framework;
	11.	Invites the Executive Secretary of the Convention, in coordination with the Department of Economic and Social Affairs of the Secretariat, to actively prepare for and participate in the seventeenth session of the Commission on Sustainable Development with a view to ensuring that the core issues of the Convention, in particular those relating to land degradation, drought and desertification, are duly considered in the context of sustainable development during the deliberations of the policy session, with a view to ensuring a successful outcome from the entire cycle of the Commission; 
	12.	Encourages developed countries that are parties to the Convention to consider, in accordance with their different obligations under the Convention, prioritizing the need for supporting the implementation of the ten-year strategic plan and framework in their respective policies and programmes for cooperation, and further encourages affected developing countries to consider making this a priority in their cooperation assistance arrangements; 
	13.	Invites donors to the Global Environment Facility to ensure that the Facility is adequately resourced during the next replenishment period in order to allow it to allocate sufficient and adequate resources to its six focal areas, in particular its land degradation focal area; 
	14.	Recognizes the cross-sectoral nature of desertification, land degradation and drought mitigation, and in this regard invites all relevant United Nations organizations to cooperate with the Convention secretariat in supporting an effective response to desertification and drought; 
	15.	Urges the Committee on Science and Technology to accelerate its efforts to establish links with scientific communities in order to make full use of relevant initiatives in areas relating to sustainable land and water management; 
	16.	Requests all States parties to the Convention to promote awareness among local populations, particularly women, youth and civil society organizations, of, and to include them in, the implementation of the ten-year strategic plan and framework, and encourages affected States parties and donors to take into account the issue of participation of civil society in Convention processes when setting priorities in national development strategies; 
	17.	Stresses the need to accelerate the ongoing process of adopting the euro as the budgetary and accounting currency of the Convention secretariat, and in this regard requests the Secretary-General, taking into account the institutional linkage and related administrative arrangements between the Convention secretariat and the United Nations Secretariat, to facilitate the implementation of decisions of the Conference of the Parties related to the protection of the Convention budget against the negative effects of currency fluctuations; 
	18.	Invites the Conference of the Parties to the Convention, when setting the dates of its meetings, to take into consideration the schedule of meetings of the General Assembly and the Commission on Sustainable Development so as to help to ensure the adequate representation of developing countries at those meetings; 
	19.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-fourth session the sub-item entitled "Implementation of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa"; 
	20.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session a report on the implementation of the present resolution, including a report on the implementation of the Convention. 

72nd plenary meeting
19 December 2008
1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1954, No. 33480.
2 See resolution 60/1.
3 A/C.2/62/7, annex.
4 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1771, No. 30822.
5 Ibid., vol. 1760, No. 30619.
6 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 2, annex.
7 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2003, Supplement No. 9 (E/2003/29), chap. I, sect. A, draft resolution I.
8 See A/63/294, sect. II.
9 See resolution 62/195, para.3.
10 A/C.2/62/7, annex, para. 27.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0848387E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/63/218<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

4
    

4

United NationsA/RES/63/218General AssemblyDistr.: General
25 February 2009Sixty-third session
Agenda item 49 (e)

08-48387

A/RES/63/218

A/RES/63/218

2

3

