[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 11 December 2008
[on the report of the Sixth Committee (A/63/439)]
63/123.	Report of the International Law Commission on the work of its sixtieth session


	The General Assembly,
	Having considered the report of the International Law Commission on the work of its sixtieth session,1
	Emphasizing the importance of furthering the progressive development of international law and its codification as a means of implementing the purposes and principles set forth in the Charter of the United Nations and in the Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Cooperation among States in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations,2 
	Recognizing the desirability of referring legal and drafting questions to the Sixth Committee, including topics that might be submitted to the International Law Commission for closer examination, and of enabling the Sixth Committee and the Commission to enhance further their contribution to the progressive development of international law and its codification,
	Recalling the need to keep under review those topics of international law which, given their new or renewed interest for the international community, may be suitable for the progressive development and codification of international law and therefore may be included in the future programme of work of the International Law Commission,
	Reaffirming the importance to the successful work of the International Law Commission of the information provided by Member States concerning their views and practice, 
	Recognizing the importance of the work of the special rapporteurs of the International Law Commission,
	Recalling the role of Member States in submitting proposals for the consideration of the International Law Commission, 
	Welcoming the holding of the International Law Seminar, and noting with appreciation the voluntary contributions made to the United Nations Trust Fund for the International Law Seminar,
	Acknowledging the importance of facilitating the timely publication of the Yearbook of the International Law Commission and eliminating the backlog,
	Stressing the usefulness of focusing and structuring the debate on the report of the International Law Commission in the Sixth Committee in such a manner that conditions are provided for concentrated attention to each of the main topics dealt with in the report and for discussions on specific topics,
	Wishing to enhance further, in the context of the revitalization of the debate on the report of the International Law Commission, the interaction between the Sixth Committee as a body of governmental representatives and the Commission as a body of independent legal experts, with a view to improving the dialogue between the two bodies,
	Welcoming initiatives to hold interactive debates, panel discussions and question time in the Sixth Committee, as envisaged in resolution 58/316 of 1 July 2004 on further measures for the revitalization of the work of the General Assembly,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the International Law Commission on the work of its sixtieth session,1 and recommends that the Commission continue its work on the topics in its current programme, taking into account the comments and observations of Governments, whether submitted in writing or expressed orally in debates in the Sixth Committee; 
	2.	Expresses its appreciation to the International Law Commission for the work accomplished at its sixtieth session, in particular for the following accomplishments:
	(a)	The completion of the second reading of the draft articles on the law of transboundary aquifers under the topic "Shared natural resources";
	(b)	The completion of the first reading of the draft articles on the topic "Effects of armed conflicts on treaties";
	3.	Draws the attention of Governments to the importance for the International Law Commission of having their views on the various aspects involved in the topics on the agenda of the Commission, in particular on all the specific issues identified in chapter III of its report,3 regarding:
	(a)	Reservations to treaties;
	(b)	Responsibility of international organizations;
	(c)	Protection of persons in the event of disasters;
	4.	Invites Governments, within the context of paragraph 3 above, to provide information to the International Law Commission regarding practice with regard to the topics "Reservations to treaties" and "Protection of persons in the event of disasters";
	5.	Draws the attention of Governments to the importance for the International Law Commission of having their comments and observations by 1 January 2010 on the draft articles and commentaries on the topic "Effects of armed conflicts on treaties" adopted on first reading by the Commission at its sixtieth session;4 
	6.	Takes note of the decision of the International Law Commission to include the topics "Treaties in time" and "The Most-Favoured-Nation clause" in its programme of work;5
	7.	Invites the International Law Commission to continue taking measures to enhance its efficiency and productivity and to consider making proposals to that end;
	8.	Encourages the International Law Commission to continue taking cost-saving measures at its future sessions without prejudice to the efficiency of its work;
	9.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly, in accordance with the established procedures, and bearing in mind its resolution 56/272 of 27 March 2002, a report on the assistance currently provided to special rapporteurs and options regarding additional support of the work of special rapporteurs;
	10.	Takes note of paragraph 363 of the report of the International Law Commission, and decides that the next session of the Commission shall be held at the United Nations Office at Geneva from 4 May to 5 June and from 6 July to 7 August 2009;
	11.	Welcomes the enhanced dialogue between the International Law Commission and the Sixth Committee at the sixty-third session of the General Assembly, stresses the desirability of further enhancing the dialogue between the two bodies, and in this context encourages, inter alia, the continued practice of informal consultations in the form of discussions between the members of the Sixth Committee and the members of the Commission attending the sixty-fourth session of the Assembly;
	12.	Encourages delegations, during the debate on the report of the International Law Commission, to adhere as far as possible to the structured work programme agreed to by the Sixth Committee and to consider presenting concise and focused statements;
	13.	Encourages Member States to consider being represented at the level of legal adviser during the first week in which the report of the International Law Commission is discussed in the Sixth Committee (International Law Week) to enable high-level discussions on issues of international law;
	14.	Requests the International Law Commission to continue to pay special attention to indicating in its annual report, for each topic, any specific issues on which expressions of views by Governments, either in the Sixth Committee or in written form, would be of particular interest in providing effective guidance for the Commission in its further work;
	15.	Takes note of paragraphs 336 to 340 of the report of the International Law Commission and commends the convening of the sixtieth anniversary commemorative meeting in Geneva on 19 and 20 May 2008, and also commends Member States, in association with existing regional organizations, professional associations, academic institutions and members of the Commission, that convened national or regional meetings dedicated to the work of the Commission; 
	16.	Also takes note of paragraphs 355 and 356 of the report of the International Law Commission with regard to cooperation with other bodies, and encourages the Commission to continue the implementation of article 16, paragraph (e), and article 26, paragraphs 1 and 2, of its statute in order to further strengthen cooperation between the Commission and other bodies concerned with international law, having in mind the usefulness of such cooperation;
	17.	Encourages the International Law Commission to undertake consultations, if it finds it appropriate, with key humanitarian actors, including the United Nations and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, in connection with work on the topic "Protection of persons in the event of disasters";
	18.	Notes that the International Law Commission, in accordance with article 26, paragraph 1, of its statute, envisages a meeting during its sixty-first session with legal advisers of international organizations within the United Nations system, in order to hold a discussion on matters of mutual interest;
	19.	Also notes that consulting with national organizations and individual experts concerned with international law may assist Governments in considering whether to make comments and observations on drafts submitted by the International Law Commission and in formulating their comments and observations;
	20.	Reaffirms its previous decisions concerning the indispensable role of the Codification Division of the Office of Legal Affairs of the Secretariat in providing assistance to the International Law Commission, including in the preparation of memorandums and studies on topics on the agenda of the Commission; 
	21.	Approves the conclusions reached by the International Law Commission in paragraph 359 of its report, and reaffirms its previous decisions concerning the documentation and summary records of the Commission;6 
	22.	Takes note of paragraph 360 of the report of the International Law Commission and, without prejudice to the importance of ensuring necessary allocations in the regular budget, acknowledges the establishment by the Secretary-General of a trust fund to accept voluntary contributions so as to address the backlog relating to the Yearbook of the International Law Commission, and invites voluntary contributions to that end;
	23.	Welcomes the continuous efforts of the Codification Division to maintain and improve the website relating to the work of the International Law Commission;7
	24.	Expresses the hope that the International Law Seminar will continue to be held in connection with the sessions of the International Law Commission and that an increasing number of participants, in particular from developing countries, will be given the opportunity to attend the Seminar, and appeals to States to continue to make urgently needed voluntary contributions to the United Nations Trust Fund for the International Law Seminar;
	25.	Requests the Secretary-General to provide the International Law Seminar with adequate services, including interpretation, as required, and encourages him to continue considering ways to improve the structure and content of the Seminar;
	26.	Also requests the Secretary-General to forward to the International Law Commission, for its attention, the records of the debate on the report of the Commission at the sixty-third session of the General Assembly, together with such written statements as delegations may circulate in conjunction with their oral statements, and to prepare and distribute a topical summary of the debate, following established practice;
	27.	Requests the Secretariat to circulate to States, as soon as possible after the conclusion of the session of the International Law Commission, chapter II of its report containing a summary of the work of that session, chapter III containing the specific issues on which the views of Governments would be of particular interest to the Commission and the draft articles adopted on either first or second reading by the Commission;
	28.	Encourages the International Law Commission to continue considering ways in which specific issues on which the views of Governments would be of particular interest to the Commission could be framed so as to help Governments to have a better appreciation of the issues on which responses are required;
	29.	Recommends that the debate on the report of the International Law Commission at the sixty-fourth session of the General Assembly commence on 26 October 2009.

67th plenary meeting
11 December 2008
1 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-third Session, Supplement No. 10 (A/63/10).
2 Resolution 2625 (XXV), annex.
3 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-third  Session, Supplement No. 10 (A/63/10), paras. 26-33.
4 Ibid., para. 63.
5 Ibid., paras. 353 and 354.
6 See resolutions 32/151, para. 10, and 37/111, para. 5, and all subsequent resolutions on the annual reports of the International Law Commission to the General Assembly.
7 www.un.org/law/ilc.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0847817E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/63/123<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

1
    

1

United NationsA/RES/63/123General AssemblyDistr.: General
15 January 2009Sixty-third session
Agenda item 75

08-47817

A/RES/63/123

A/RES/63/123

4

5

