[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 21 December 2010
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/65/454 and Corr.1)]
65/200.	International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its previous resolutions on the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,1 most recently resolution 63/243 of 24 December 2008, 
	Bearing in mind the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993,2 in particular section II.B of the Declaration, relating to equality, dignity and tolerance, 
	Reiterating the need to intensify the struggle to eliminate all forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance throughout the world, 
	Reiterating also the importance of the Convention, which is one of the most widely accepted human rights instruments adopted under the auspices of the United Nations, 
	Reaffirming that universal adherence to and full implementation of the Convention are of paramount importance for promoting equality and non-discrimination in the world, as stated in the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action, adopted by the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance on 8 September 2001,3
	Mindful of the importance of the contributions of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination to the effective implementation of the Convention and to the efforts of the United Nations to combat racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, 
	Emphasizing the obligation of all States parties to the Convention to take legislative, judicial and other measures to secure full implementation of the provisions of the Convention, 
	Recalling its resolution 47/111 of 16 December 1992, in which it welcomed the decision, taken on 15 January 1992 by the Fourteenth Meeting of States Parties to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, to amend paragraph 6 of article 8 of the Convention and to add a new paragraph, as paragraph 7 of article 8, with a view to providing for the financing of the Committee from the regular budget of the United Nations,4 and reiterating its deep concern that the amendment to the Convention has not yet entered into force, 
	Stressing the importance of enabling the Committee to function smoothly and to have all necessary facilities for the effective performance of its functions under the Convention, 
	Recalling its resolution 63/243, in which the General Assembly decided to authorize the Committee to meet for an additional week per session, as a temporary measure, with effect from August 2009, until 2011, and noting that the additional meeting time has allowed the Committee to reduce the backlog of reports pending consideration,
	Taking note of the note by the Secretary-General on the evaluation of the use of additional meeting time by the human rights treaty bodies,5 the increasing workload of the treaty bodies and the increasing number of requests from them for more meeting time,

I
Reports of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination
	1.	Takes note of the reports of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination on its seventy-fourth and seventy-fifth6 and its seventy-sixth and seventy-seventh7 sessions;
	2.	Commends the Committee for its contributions to the effective implementation of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,1 especially through the examination of reports under article 9 of the Convention, action on communications under article 14 of the Convention and thematic discussions, which contribute to the prevention and elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance; 
	3.	Calls upon States parties to fulfil their obligation, under article 9, paragraph 1, of the Convention, to submit their periodic reports on measures taken to implement the Convention in due time; 
	4.	Expresses its concern at the fact that a great number of reports, in particular initial reports, are overdue and continue to be overdue, which constitutes an obstacle to the full implementation of the Convention; 
	5.	Encourages States parties to the Convention whose reports are seriously overdue to avail themselves of the advisory services and technical assistance that the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights can provide, upon their request, for the preparation of the reports; 
	6.	Reiterates that States parties, in line with article 8 of the Convention, should take into account, in their nomination of members to the Committee, that the Committee shall be composed of persons of high moral standing and acknowledged impartiality, who shall serve in their personal capacity, and that consideration shall be given to equitable geographical distribution and to the representation of the different forms of civilization as well as of the principal legal systems, and encourages States parties to give due regard to the nomination of persons having legal experience, as well as recognized competence in the field of human rights, and to the equal representation of women and men;
	7.	Encourages the Committee to continue to cooperate and exchange information with United Nations bodies and mechanisms, in particular the Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and other relevant mechanisms of the Human Rights Council, as well as with intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations; 
	8.	Encourages States parties to the Convention to continue to include a gender perspective in their reports to the Committee, and invites the Committee to take into account a gender perspective in the implementation of its mandate; 
	9.	Also encourages States parties to the Convention to include information on measures to prevent and combat racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance in their national reports to the universal periodic review mechanism of the Human Rights Council, and strongly encourages States parties to recognize those recommendations of the universal periodic review mechanism that originate from treaty body recommendations and treat them appropriately; 
	10.	Notes with appreciation the engagement of the Committee in the follow-up to the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action;3
	11.	Expresses its appreciation for the efforts made so far by the Committee to improve the efficiency of its working methods, including with a view to further harmonizing the working methods of the treaty bodies, and encourages the Committee to continue its activities in this regard; 
	12.	Welcomes, in this regard, measures taken by the Committee to follow up on its concluding observations and recommendations, such as the appointment of a follow-up coordinator8 and the adoption of the guidelines on follow-up;9 
	13.	Encourages the continued participation of members of the Committee in the annual inter-committee meetings and meetings of chairpersons of the human rights treaty bodies, especially with a view to a more coordinated approach to the activities of the treaty body system and standardized reporting as well as to solving the problem of the backlog of reports of States parties in an effective manner, including by identifying efficiencies and maximizing the use of their resources as well as learning and sharing best practices and experiences in this regard; 
	14.	Notes the persistent backlog of reports of States parties awaiting consideration, which prevents the Committee from considering the periodic reports of States parties in a timely manner and without undue delay, as well as the request of the Committee that the General Assembly approve one additional week of meeting time per session, starting in 2012;
	15.	Decides to extend the authorization to the Committee to meet for an additional week per session, as a temporary measure, in 2012, in order to address the backlog of reports of States parties and individual complaints awaiting consideration; 
	16.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session concrete and tailored proposals on the human rights treaty bodies, including the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, building on the work of the Secretary-General pursuant to Human Rights Council resolution 9/8 of 24 September 200810 and of the treaty bodies in this regard, to improve their effectiveness and to identify efficiencies in their working methods and resource requirements in order better to manage their workloads, bearing in mind budgetary constraints and taking account of the varying burdens on each treaty body;

II
Financial situation of the Committee on the Elimination
of Racial Discrimination
	17.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the financial situation of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination;11 
	18.	Expresses its profound concern at the fact that a number of States parties to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination1 have still not fulfilled their financial obligations, as shown in the report of the Secretary-General, and strongly appeals to all States parties that are in arrears to fulfil their outstanding financial obligations under article 8, paragraph 6, of the Convention; 
	19.	Strongly urges States parties to the Convention to accelerate their domestic ratification procedures with regard to the amendment to the Convention concerning the financing of the Committee and to notify the Secretary-General expeditiously in writing of their agreement to the amendment, as decided upon at the Fourteenth Meeting of States Parties to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination on 15 January 1992,4 endorsed by the General Assembly in its resolution 47/111 and further reiterated at the Sixteenth Meeting of States Parties on 16 January 1996; 
	20.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue to ensure adequate financial arrangements and to provide the necessary support, including an adequate level of Secretariat assistance, in order to ensure the functioning of the Committee and to enable it to cope with its increasing amount of work; 
	21.	Also requests the Secretary-General to invite those States parties to the Convention that are in arrears to pay the amounts in arrears, and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session; 

III
Status of the International Convention on the Elimination
of All Forms of Racial Discrimination
	22.	Recalls the forty-fifth anniversary of the adoption of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,1 and takes this opportunity to reiterate the call for the universal ratification and effective implementation of the Convention by all States parties to eliminate all forms of racial discrimination;
	23.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the status of the Convention;12 
	24.	Expresses its satisfaction at the number of States that have ratified or acceded to the Convention, which now stands at one hundred and seventy-four;
	25.	Urges States parties to comply fully with their obligations under the Convention and to take into consideration the concluding observations and general recommendations of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination; 
	26.	Reaffirms its conviction that ratification of or accession to the Convention on a universal basis and the implementation of its provisions are necessary for the effectiveness of the fight against racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and for the implementation of the commitments undertaken under the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action,3 and expresses its disappointment that universal ratification of the Convention was not achieved by the targeted date of 2005; 
	27.	Urges States to limit the extent of any reservation they lodge to the Convention and to formulate any reservation as precisely and narrowly as possible in order to ensure that no reservation is incompatible with the object and purpose of the Convention, to review their reservations on a regular basis with a view to withdrawing them, and to withdraw reservations that are contrary to the object and purpose of the Convention; 
	28.	Notes that the number of States parties to the Convention that have made the declaration provided for in article 14 of the Convention now stands at fifty-four, and requests States parties that have not yet done so to consider making that declaration; 
	29.	Invites the Chair of the Committee to present an oral report on the work of the Committee and to engage in an interactive dialogue with the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh session under the item entitled "Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance"; 
	30.	Decides to consider, at its sixty-seventh session, under the item entitled "Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance", the reports of the Committee on its seventy-eighth and seventy-ninth and its eightieth and eighty-first sessions, the report of the Secretary-General on the financial situation of the Committee and the report of the Secretary-General on the status of the Convention.

71st plenary meeting
21 December 2010
1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 660, No. 9464.
2 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
3 See A/CONF.189/12 and Corr.1, chap. I.
4 See CERD/SP/45, annex.
5 A/65/317.
6 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 18 (A/64/18).
7 Ibid., Sixty-fifth Session, Supplement No. 18 (A/65/18).
8 Ibid., Sixtieth Session, Supplement No. 18 (A/60/18), annex IV.
9 Ibid., Sixty-first Session, Supplement No. 18 (A/61/18), annex VI.
10 Ibid., Sixty-third Session, Supplement No. 53A (A/63/53/Add.1), chap. I.
11 A/65/312.
12 A/65/292.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1052454E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/65/200<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/65/200General AssemblyDistr.: General
11 March 2011Sixty-fifth session
Agenda item 66 (a)

10-52454
*1052454*

A/RES/65/200

A/RES/65/200

4

5

