<<ODS JOB NO>>N9877057E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/52/18*<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>

UNITED									A
NATIONS



					General Assembly


																		Distr.
																		GENERAL

																		A/RES/52/18*
																		2 March 1998






Fifty-second session
Agenda item 38


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[without reference to a Main Committee (A/52/L.28 and Add.1)]


52/18.Support by the United Nations system of the efforts of Governments to promote and consolidate new or restored democracies


	The General Assembly,

	Bearing in mind the indissoluble links between the principles enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights1 and the foundations of any democratic society,

	Recalling the Manila Declaration2 adopted by the First International Conference of New or Restored Democracies3 in June 1988,

	Considering the major changes taking place on the international scene and the aspirations of all peoples for an international order based on the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, including the promotion and encouragement of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all and other important principles, such as respect for the equal rights and self-determination of peoples, peace, democracy, justice, equality, the rule of law, pluralism, development, better standards of living and solidarity,

	Recalling its resolution 49/30 of 7 December 1994 in which it recognized the importance of the Managua

Declaration4 and Plan of Action5 adopted by the Second International Conference of New or Restored Democracies in July 1994, as well as its resolutions 50/133 of 20 December 1995 and 51/31 of 6 December 1996,

	Taking note of the Universal Declaration on Democracy, adopted by the Inter-Parliamentary Council at its session held at Cairo on 16 September 1997,6

	Also taking note of the International Conference on Governance for Sustainable Growth and Equity, held in New York from 28 to 30 June 1997,

	Noting with satisfaction the holding of the Third International Conference of New or Restored Democracies on Democracy and Development at Bucharest from 2 to 4 September 1997, and the adoption of the document entitled "Progress Review and Recommendations"7 in which the progress towards democratization and consolidation of democratic institutions was assessed and guidelines, principles and recommendations were addressed to Governments, civil society, the private sector, donor countries and the international community,

	Noting in particular the recommendations addressed to the United Nations system and the international financial organizations, contained in that document,8

	Welcoming the inclusion of a Civil Society Forum in the proceedings of the Bucharest Conference,

	Noting the efforts of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization to encourage education for democracy,

	Taking note of the views of Member States expressed in the debate on this question at its forty-ninth, fiftieth, fifty-first and fifty-second sessions,

	Bearing in mind that the activities of the United Nations carried out in support of the efforts of Governments to promote and consolidate democracy are undertaken in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and only at the specific request of the Member States concerned,

	Also bearing in mind that democracy, development and respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms are interdependent and mutually reinforcing and that democracy is based on the freely expressed will of the people to determine their own political, economic, social and cultural systems and on their full participation in all aspects of their lives,

	Noting that a considerable number of societies have recently undertaken significant efforts to achieve their social, political and economic goals through democratization and the reform of their economies, pursuits that are deserving of the support and recognition of the international community,

	Having considered the report of the Secretary-General9 and its special focus on policies and principles and on the recent events shaping the emerging framework for intergovernmental action in the field of democratization,

	1.	Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General;9

	2.	Expresses its appreciation for the observations and recommendations contained in the report with respect to electoral assistance, strengthening civil society, coordinating United Nations activities in democratization and governance and promoting democracy for the twenty-first century;

	3.	Takes note of the proposal of the Secretary-General that future conferences on democracy be open to all States Members of the United Nations that wish to participate;

	4.	Welcomes the decision of the Third International Conference of New or Restored Democracies to hold the next conference in an African country;

	5.	Also welcomes the offer of the Government of Benin to host at Cotonou the Fourth International Conference of New or Restored Democracies;

	6.	Commends the Secretary-General, and through him the United Nations system, for the activities undertaken at the request of Governments to support the efforts to consolidate democracy;

	7.	Recognizes that the Organization has an important role to play in providing timely, appropriate and coherent support to the efforts of Governments to achieve democratization within the context of their development efforts;

	8.	Stresses that activities undertaken by the Organization must be in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations;

	9.	Encourages the Secretary-General to continue to improve the capacity of the Organization to respond effectively to the requests of Member States through coherent, adequate support of their efforts to achieve the goals of good governance and democratization;

	10.	Encourages Member States to promote democratization and to make additional efforts to identify possible steps to support the efforts of Governments to promote and consolidate new or restored democracies;

	11.	Invites the Secretary-General, Member States, the relevant specialized agencies and bodies of the United Nations system, as well as other intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, to contribute actively to the follow-up process of the Third International Conference of New or Restored Democracies on Democracy and Development;

	12.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the General Assembly at its fifty-third session on the implementation of the present resolution, including innovative ways and means to enable the Organization to respond effectively and in an integrated manner to requests of Member States for assistance in the field of good governance and democratization;


	13.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-third session the item entitled "Support by the United Nations system of the efforts of Governments to promote and consolidate new or restored democracies".

	51st plenary meeting
	21 November 1997
* Reissued for technical reasons.

1 Resolution 217 A (III).
2 A/43/538, annex.
3 Then called the International Conference of Newly Restored Democracies.
4 A/49/713, annex I.
5 Ibid., annex II.
6 A/52/437, annex IV.
7 A/52/334, annex, appendix.
8 Ibid., sect. IV.
9 A/52/513.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------



 

 


98-77057	/...


98-77057	/...

A/RES/52/18
Page 1



	A/RES/52/18
	Page 1




98-77057	/...


98-77057	/...

A/RES/52/18
Page 2



	A/RES/52/18
	Page 2




	/...


	/...

A/RES/52/18
Page 3



	A/RES/52/18
	Page 3







