[COMMENT1]UNITED		A
NATIONS




         General Assembly

                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/54/221
                                                                           8 February 2000




Fifty-fourth session 
Agenda item 100 (c)


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Second Committee (A/54/588/Add.3)]


	54/221.  Convention on Biological Diversity

    The General Assembly,

    Recalling its resolution 53/190 of 15 December 1998 on the Convention on Biological Diversity and other relevant resolutions,

    Recalling also the provisions of the Convention on Biological Diversity,1

    Reaffirming that the conservation of biological diversity is a common concern of humankind,

    Recalling that States have, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and the principles of international law, the sovereign right to exploit their own resources pursuant to their own environmental policies and the responsibility to ensure that activities within their jurisdiction or control do not cause damage to the environment of other States or of areas beyond the limits of national jurisdiction,

    Recalling Agenda 21,2 in particular its chapter 15 on the conservation of biological diversity and related chapters,


    Having considered the report of the Executive Secretary of the Convention on Biological Diversity as submitted by the Secretary-General to the General Assembly,3

    Deeply concerned about the continued loss of the world's biological diversity, and, on the basis of the provisions of the Convention, reaffirming the commitment to the conservation of biological diversity, the sustainable use of its components and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising out of the utilization of genetic resources, including by appropriate access to genetic resources and appropriate transfer of relevant technologies, taking into account all rights over those resources and technologies, and by appropriate funding,

    Recognizing the contribution of indigenous and local communities, and women within those communities, to the conservation and sustainable use of biological resources,

    Recalling the decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity at its fourth meeting4 relating to intellectual property rights, traditional knowledge and the relationship of the Convention with other international agreements,

    Noting the continuing dialogue taking place in the Committee on Trade and Environment of the World Trade Organization on the provisions of the Agreement on Trade-related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights,5

    Encouraged by the work carried out to date under the Convention, and satisfied that most States and one regional economic integration organization have ratified the Convention,

    Taking note with appreciation of the generous offer of the Government of Kenya to host the fifth meeting of the Conference of the Parties, which will be held at Nairobi from 15 to 26 May 2000,

    Recalling its invitation to the Executive Secretary of the Convention on Biological Diversity to report to the General Assembly on the results of future meetings of the Conference of the Parties,

    1.	Takes note of  the results of the fourth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity, held at Bratislava from 4 to 15 May 1998;4

    2.	Recognizes the importance of the inter-sessional efforts of the Conference of the Parties since its fourth meeting to improve the effectiveness of the operations of the Convention;

    3.	Reaffirms the importance of the decision of the fourth meeting of the Conference of the Parties on the adoption of the programmes of work and the thematic approach to guide its work in the development of the Convention for the foreseeable future, including its in-depth consideration of ecosystems;4

                                                     
                                                     
    4.	Calls upon Governments, in cooperation with the Conference of the Parties, to use science-based analysis to study and monitor closely the evolution of new technologies to prevent possible adverse effects on the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity, which might have an impact on farmers and local communities;

    5.	Recognizes the importance of the adoption of a protocol on biosafety at the resumed session of the first extraordinary meeting of the Conference of the Parties, to be held at Montreal, Canada, from 24 to 28 January 2000, and calls upon States participating in the negotiations on a protocol on biosafety to work constructively to bring this process to a satisfactory conclusion;

    6.	Welcomes decision IV/15, adopted by the Conference of the Parties at its fourth meeting,4 in which  it stressed the need to ensure consistency in implementing the Convention and World Trade Organization agreements, including the Agreement on Trade-related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights,5 with a view to promoting increased mutual supportiveness and integration of biological diversity concerns and the protection of intellectual property rights;

    7.	Reaffirms paragraph 10 of decision IV/15, in which the Conference of the Parties emphasized that further work is required to help develop a common appreciation of the relationship between intellectual property rights and the relevant provisions of the Agreement on Trade-related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights and the Convention on Biological Diversity, in particular on issues relating to technology transfer and conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising out of the use of genetic resources, including the protection of knowledge, innovations and practices of indigenous and local communities embodying traditional lifestyles relevant for the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity;

    8.	Takes note of the fourth meeting of the Subsidiary Body on Scientific, Technical and Technological Advice of the Conference of the Parties, including its recommendation IV/5 on the consequences of the use of the new technology for the control of plant gene expression for the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity;6 

    9.	Stresses the importance of the implementation of the Convention at all levels, including through the preparation and implementation of national strategies, plans and programmes, taking into account the need for financial resources to support the implementation activities, in particular those of developing countries, in accordance with the provisions of the Convention and the decisions of the Conference of the Parties;

    10.	Encourages those States that have not yet ratified the Convention to do so as soon as possible;

    11.	Takes note of the meeting of the Panel of Experts on Access and Benefit-sharing, established in accordance with decision IV/8, adopted by the Conference of the Parties at its fourth meeting;4

    12.	Recognizes the importance of national action to conserve biological diversity in many habitats, including forests, wetlands and coastal areas, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Convention, in particular article 8, and the need to mobilize national and international support for such national actions;


    13.	Welcomes the offer of Spain to host, at Seville in March 2000, the first meeting of the Ad Hoc Open-ended Inter-sessional Working Group on article 8 (j) of the Convention regarding the traditional knowledge, innovations and practices of indigenous and local communities, and encourages Governments to include representatives of indigenous and local communities on their delegations to that meeting;

    14.	Recognizes the utility of information exchange, and encourages the development of biodiversity information networks at the national, regional and international levels by way of the clearing-house mechanism;

    15.	Encourages the conferences of the parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change,7 the Convention on Biological Diversity and the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, particularly in Africa,8 to examine further  appropriate opportunities and measures to strengthen their complementarities and improve scientific assessments of ecological linkages between the three conventions;

    16.	Encourages the secretariats of various environmental and environment-related conventions and other international organizations, with full respect for the status of the respective convention secretariats and the autonomous decision-making prerogatives of the conferences of the parties to the conventions concerned, to strengthen cooperation with a view to facilitating progress in their implementation at the international, regional and national levels;

    17.	Invites all funding institutions and bilateral and multilateral donors, as well as regional funding institutions and non-governmental organizations, to cooperate with the secretariat of the Convention in the implementation of the programme of work;

    18.	Calls upon States parties to the Convention to settle urgently any arrears and to pay their contributions in full and in a timely manner so as to ensure continuity in the cash flows required to finance the ongoing work of the Conference of the Parties, the subsidiary bodies and the Convention secretariat;

    19.	Invites the Executive Secretary of the Convention on Biological Diversity to report to the General Assembly on the ongoing work regarding the Convention;

    20.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-fifth session the sub-item entitled "Convention on Biological Diversity".

	87th plenary meeting
	22 December 1999

1 See United Nations Environment Programme, Convention on Biological Diversity (Environmental Law and Institution Programme Activity Centre), June 1992.
2 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigenda), vol. I: Resolutions adopted by the Conference, resolution 1, annex II.
3 A/54/428, annex.
4 See UNEP/CBD/COP/4/27, annex.
5 See Legal Instruments Embodying the Results of the Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations, done at Marrakesh on 15 April 1994 (GATT secretariat publication, Sales No. GATT/1994-7).
6 See UNEP/CBD/COP/5/2.
7 A/AC.237/18 (Part II)/Add.1 and Corr.1, annex I.
8 A/49/84/Add.2, annex, appendix II.
[COMMENT1]
<<ODS JOB NO>>N0027187E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/54/221<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------


00 27187	/...


00 27187	/...

A/RES/54/221
Page 2




	A/RES/54/221
	Page 





	/...


	/...





