[Start1]
Seventy-second session
Agenda item 103



		Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 4 December 2017


		[on the report of the First Committee (A/72/413)]


	72/68.	Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects 


	The General Assembly, 
	Recalling its resolution 71/84 of 5 December 2016, 
	Recalling with satisfaction the adoption and entry into force of the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects1 and its amended article 1,2 the Protocol on Non-Detectable Fragments (Protocol I),1 the Protocol on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Mines, Booby Traps and Other Devices (Protocol II)1 and its amended version,3 the Protocol on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Incendiary Weapons (Protocol III),1 the Protocol on Blinding Laser Weapons (Protocol IV)4 and the Protocol on Explosive Remnants of War (Protocol V),5 
	Welcoming the results of the Fifth Review Conference of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention, held in Geneva from 12 to 16 December 2016, 
	Welcoming also the results of the Eighteenth Annual Conference of the High Contracting Parties to Amended Protocol II, held in Geneva on 30 August 2016, 
	Welcoming further the results of the Tenth Conference of the High Contracting Parties to Protocol V, held in Geneva on 29 August 2016, 
	Regretting that in 2017 the Meeting of the Group of Experts of the High Contracting Parties to Amended Protocol II, the Meeting of Experts of the High Contracting Parties to Protocol V and the first session of the Group of Governmental Experts related to emerging technologies in the area of lethal autonomous weapons systems of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention could not take place owing to lack of adequate funding to hold all meetings, and noting the importance of addressing issues arising from the outstanding dues of High Contracting Parties and participating States and from the financial and accounting practices recently implemented by the United Nations, 
	Recalling the role played by the International Committee of the Red Cross in the elaboration of the Convention and the Protocols thereto, and welcoming the particular efforts of various international, non-governmental and other organizations in raising awareness of the humanitarian consequences of various categories of conventional weapons which may be deemed to be excessively injurious or to have indiscriminate effects, 
	1.	Calls upon all States that have not yet done so to take all measures to become parties, as soon as possible, to the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects1 and the Protocols thereto, as amended, with a view to achieving the widest possible adherence to these instruments at an early date and so as to ultimately achieve their universality; 
	2.	Calls upon all High Contracting Parties to the Convention that have not yet done so to express their consent to be bound by the Protocols to the Convention and the amendment extending the scope of the Convention and the Protocols thereto to include armed conflicts of a non-international character; 
	3.	Emphasizes the importance of the universalization of the Protocol on Explosive Remnants of War (Protocol V);5 
	4.	Welcomes the additional ratifications and acceptances of or accessions to the Convention, as well as the consents to be bound by the Protocols thereto; 
	5.	Acknowledges the continued efforts of the Secretary-General, as depositary of the Convention and the Protocols thereto, and of the respective office holders of the conferences of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention, Protocol V and Amended Protocol II, on behalf of the High Contracting Parties, to achieve the goal of universality; 
	6.	Recalls the following decisions by the Fifth Review Conference of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention: 
	(a)	To establish an open-ended Group of Governmental Experts related to emerging technologies in the area of lethal autonomous weapons systems in the context of the objectives and purposes of the Convention, adhering to the agreed recommendations contained in document CCW/CONF.V/2, and to submit a report to the 2017 Meeting of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention consistent with those recommendations; 
	(b)	To add to the agenda of the next Meeting of the High Contracting Parties in 2017 the item "Protocol III"; 
	(c)	To add to the agenda of the next Meeting of the High Contracting Parties in 2017 the item "Mines other than anti-personnel mines"; 
	(d)	To add to the agenda of the next Meeting of the High Contracting Parties in 2017 the item for informal discussion "Consideration of how developments in the field of science and technology relevant to the Convention may be addressed under the Convention"; 
	(e)	To invite the Chairperson-elect to conduct consultations with a view to including on the agenda of the 2017 annual Meeting of the High Contracting Parties the item "Strengthening the respect for international humanitarian law and addressing, in the context and objectives of the Convention and its annexed Protocols, the challenges presented by the use of conventional weapons in armed conflicts and their impact on civilians, particularly in areas where there are concentrations of civilians"; 
	(f)	To include on the agenda of the annual Meetings of the High Contracting Parties the item "Financial issues related to the Convention and its annexed Protocols" and to consider at the next such meeting efficiency and cost-saving measures and a report to be prepared by the Chairperson-elect; 
	(g)	To retain the practice of keeping summary records only for the final sessions of the future Review Conferences, the meetings of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention, and the Conferences of the High Contracting Parties to Amended Protocol II and Protocol V; 
	(h)	To continue the Sponsorship Programme; 
	7.	Welcomes the commitment by High Contracting Parties to continue to contribute to the further development of international humanitarian law and in this context to keep under review both the development of new weapons and uses of weapons, which may have indiscriminate effects or cause unnecessary suffering; 
	8.	Calls upon all High Contracting Parties to ensure full and prompt compliance with their financial obligations under the Convention and its annexed Protocols; 
	9.	Also calls upon all High Contracting Parties to explore options to improve the financial situation and ways to ensure financial stability for the operation of the Convention and its annexed Protocols; 
	10.	Welcomes the commitment of High Contracting Parties to Protocol V to the effective and efficient implementation of the Protocol and the implementation of the decisions of the First and Second Conferences of the High Contracting Parties to the Protocol establishing a comprehensive framework for the exchange of information and cooperation; 
	11.	Notes that, in conformity with article 8 of the Convention, conferences may be convened to examine amendments to the Convention or to any of the Protocols thereto, to examine additional protocols concerning other categories of conventional weapons not covered by existing Protocols or to review the scope and application of the Convention and the Protocols thereto and to examine any proposed amendments or additional protocols; 
	12.	Acknowledges the work of the Implementation Support Unit within the Geneva Branch of the Office for Disarmament Affairs of the Secretariat, which was established following a decision by the 2009 Meeting of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention; 
	13.	Requests the Secretary-General to render the assistance necessary and to provide such services as may be required for the annual conferences and expert meetings of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention and of the High Contracting Parties to Amended Protocol II and Protocol V, as well as for any continuation of the work after the meetings; 
	14.	Also requests the Secretary-General, in his capacity as depositary of the Convention and the Protocols thereto, to continue to inform the General Assembly periodically, by electronic means, of ratifications and acceptances of and accessions to the Convention, its amended article 12 and the Protocols; 
	15.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its seventy-third session the item entitled "Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects". 

62nd plenary meeting 
4 December 2017

	1 	United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1342, No. 22495. 
	2 	Ibid., vol. 2260, No. 22495. 
	3 	Ibid., vol. 2048, No. 22495. 
	4 	Ibid., vol. 2024, No. 22495.
	5 	Ibid., vol. 2399, No. 22495. 
[Start1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1742143E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/72/68<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
__________________

__________________

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

A/RES/72/68Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects

Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate EffectsA/RES/72/68

17-218102/2

3/417-21810

United NationsA/RES/72/68 General AssemblyDistr.: General
13 December 2017


17-21810 (E)    151217
*1721810*

