[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 16 December 2005
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/60/503)]

60/137.	United Nations Development Fund for Women


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 39/125 of 14 December 1984, by which it established the United Nations Development Fund for Women as a separate and identifiable entity in autonomous association with the United Nations Development Programme, as well as its resolution 56/130 of 19 December 2001,
	Reaffirming the Beijing Platform for Action adopted by the Fourth World Conference on Women,1 which recognizes the special role of the Fund in the promotion of the economic and political empowerment of women, and the outcome of the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly entitled "Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the twenty-first century",2
	Welcoming the declaration adopted by the Commission on the Status of Women at its forty-ninth session,3 which emphasizes that implementation of the Beijing Platform for Action is essential to achieving the Millennium Development Goals,
	Welcoming also the commitment of Heads of State and Government gathered at the 2005 World Summit to promote gender equality and the empowerment of women, as set out in the 2005 World Summit Outcome,4
	Reaffirming the primary and essential role of the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council, as well as the central role of the Commission on the Status of Women, in promoting the advancement of women and gender equality,
	Reaffirming also all relevant resolutions of the General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council and the Commission on the Status of Women, as well as Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) of 31 October 2000 on women and peace and security,
	Recognizing the importance of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,5 and noting that the number of States parties to the Convention is among the highest for human rights conventions,
	Welcoming the contributions that the Fund has made in supporting initiatives of Member States, United Nations organizations and non-governmental organizations to formulate and implement activities that promote gender equality and the empowerment of women,
	Recalling its resolution 59/250 of 22 December 2004 on the triennial comprehensive policy review of operational activities for development of the United Nations system, and stressing the need for all organizations of the United Nations development system to implement their global, regional and country-level activities in accordance with their mandates,
	Recalling also Economic and Social Council agreed conclusions 1997/2 of 18 July 19976 and Council resolution 2004/4 of 7 July 2004 on mainstreaming the gender perspective into all policies and programmes in the United Nations system,
	Recalling further Economic and Social Council resolution 2005/54 of 27 July 2005 entitled "United Nations Development Fund for Women",
	Noting the importance of the work of the Consultative Committee on the United Nations Development Fund for Women in policy and programme directions, as stipulated in the annex to resolution 39/125,
	1.	Welcomes the note by the Secretary-General on the activities of the United Nations Development Fund for Women, containing a results-focused report on progress in implementing its multi-year funding framework 2004-2007;7
	2.	Commends the focus by the Fund on strategic programmes in its four core areas of work, namely, reducing feminized poverty, ending violence against women, halting and reversing the spread of HIV/AIDS and achieving gender equality in democratic governance and in post-conflict countries, and on supporting innovative programming in the context of the Beijing Platform for Action1 and commitments made at the twenty-third special session of the General Assembly2 and at the forty-ninth session of the Commission on the Status of Women;8
	3.	Notes with appreciation the increased synergy between the United Nations Development Fund for Women and other funds, programmes and organizations of the United Nations system, as well as the Office of the Special Adviser on Gender Issues and Advancement of Women, the Division for the Advancement of Women of the Department of Economic and Social Affairs of the Secretariat and the International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women, and calls upon those entities to continue their collaborative efforts;
	4.	Calls upon all organizations of the United Nations system, within their mandates, to mainstream a gender perspective and to pursue gender equality in their country programmes, planning instruments and sector-wide programmes and to articulate specific country-level goals and targets in this field in accordance with national development strategies;
	5.	Encourages the Fund to continue to contribute to the harmonization and coordination processes of United Nations reform through, inter alia, strengthened partnerships with other funds, programmes and organizations of the United Nations system and through the promotion of development, including technical cooperation, women's human rights and a gender-equality perspective in the policies, guidelines and tools developed by the United Nations Development Group;
	6.	Emphasizes the importance of continuing grass-roots work, and, in order to achieve better coordination with other United Nations bodies, encourages the participation of the Fund in relevant high-level inter-agency coordination mechanisms;
	7.	Recognizes the efforts of the Fund and other United Nations funds and programmes to strengthen the gender-equality and women's empowerment perspective in formulation, implementation and evaluation processes related to national development plans and programmes aimed at eradicating poverty, including poverty reduction strategies, the Millennium Development Goals and the United Nations development assistance frameworks where they exist, and urges the Fund to support these processes;
	8.	Encourages the Fund to support strengthened and coordinated action on gender equality at the country level, in collaboration with the resident coordinator system, including by advocating and building the capacity of gender theme groups within United Nations country teams;
	9.	Urges the United Nations development system to avail itself of the technical and coordination experience of the Fund on gender issues while undertaking efforts to implement gender mainstreaming internally;
	10.	Encourages Member States and United Nations organizations to explore with the Fund possible innovative representational arrangements, including through the use of seconded staff, project offices and other means;
	11.	Notes the activities undertaken by the Fund in follow-up to resolution 56/130, including activities relating to the impact of armed conflict on women and the role of women in peacebuilding, and the support it provides for the participation of women in peace processes, and urges the Fund to increase its efforts and enhance its capacity to support a coordinated approach of the United Nations system to strengthen gender justice in peacebuilding and post-conflict recovery and reconstruction, including cooperation, as appropriate, with the Department of Political Affairs and the Department of Peacekeeping Operations of the Secretariat as well as Member States, regional organizations and other United Nations partners;
	12.	Emphasizes the importance of the Trust Fund in Support of Actions to Eliminate Violence against Women, established by General Assembly resolution 50/166 of 22 December 1995, as a critical response to the deep concern expressed at the fifty-ninth session of the Assembly regarding the persistence of violence and crimes against women in all parts of the world, and urges all Governments, non-governmental organizations and the public and private sectors to consider contributing or increasing contributions to the Trust Fund;
	13.	Encourages the Fund to continue to support the gender-equality and women's empowerment goals and targets of the Declaration of Commitment on HIV/AIDS adopted by the General Assembly at its twenty-sixth special session,9 by working closely with women who are affected by or infected with HIV/AIDS to develop their capacity to influence programmes and policies, building on its partnerships within the United Nations system, in particular with the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS;
	14.	Also encourages the Fund to respond to country requests for the development or strengthening of accountability mechanisms for gender equality, including by building the capacity of Governments to undertake gender-responsive budget analysis and to use sex-disaggregated data as a basis for gender-responsive public policy formulation;
	15.	Welcomes the role of the Fund in promoting the strategic importance of the empowerment of women in all of the regions in which it operates, and notes with appreciation the enhanced programme activities of the Fund in the African region;
	16.	Encourages the Fund to strengthen cooperation with Member States and with United Nations programmes, funds and relevant agencies, as well as non-governmental organizations, and to provide assistance in order to implement the commitments on gender equality contained in the 2005 World Summit Outcome;4
	17.	Also encourages the Fund to continue to assist Governments in implementing the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,5 in order to advance gender equality at all levels, including by reinforcing the cooperation between Governments and civil society, especially women's organizations, and by supporting efforts to follow up, as appropriate, the concluding comments of the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women;
	18.	Recognizes with appreciation the increases in core contributions and, particularly, non-core contributions to the Fund made by Member States, private organizations and foundations, whose increased contributions demonstrate their commitment to the issues on which the Fund is working;
	19.	Invites, accordingly, Member States, non-governmental organizations and members of private organizations and foundations that have contributed to the Fund to continue to contribute and to consider increasing their financial contributions, and urges others that have not yet done so to consider contributing to the Fund to enable it to reach the targets for core resources in its multi-year funding framework.
64th plenary meeting
16 December 2005
1 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
2 Resolution S-23/2, annex, and resolution S-23/3, annex.
3 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2005, Supplement No. 7 and corrigendum (E/2005/27 and Corr.1), chap. I, sect. A; see also Economic and Social Council decision 2005/232.
4 See resolution 60/1.
5 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1249, No. 20378.
6 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-second Session, Supplement No. 3 (A/52/3/Rev.1), chap. IV, para. 4.
7 A/60/274.
8 See E/CN.6/2005/2 and Corr.1.
9 Resolution S-26/2, annex.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0549582E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/60/137<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

4
    

4

United NationsA/RES/60/137General AssemblyDistr.: General
2 February 2006Sixtieth session
Agenda item 64

05-49582

A/RES/60/137

A/RES/60/137

4

3

