[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly

[on the report of the Third Committee (A/55/600)]
55/81.	International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its previous resolutions concerning the reports of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination and its resolutions on the status of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,1 most recently resolution 53/131 of 9 December 1998,
	Bearing in mind the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993,2 in particular section II.B of the Declaration, relating to equality, dignity and tolerance,
	Reiterating the need to intensify the struggle to eliminate all forms of racial discrimination throughout the world, especially its most brutal forms,
	Recalling its resolution 52/111 of 12 December 1997, in which it decided to convene the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance no later than 2001,
	Recalling also its resolution 53/132 of 9 December 1998, in which it decided to observe 2001 as the International Year of Mobilization against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance,
	Taking note of Commission on Human Rights resolution 2000/14 of 17 April 2000 on racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance,3
	Reiterating the importance of the Convention, which is one of the most widely accepted human rights instruments adopted under the auspices of the United Nations,
	Stressing the importance of achieving universal ratification of the Convention, which will contribute to the fight against racism and racial discrimination,
	Mindful of the importance of the contributions of the Committee to the effective implementation of the Convention and to the efforts of the United Nations to combat racism and all other forms of discrimination based on race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin,
	Noting that the reports submitted by States parties under the Convention contain, inter alia, information about the causes of, as well as measures to combat, contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance,
	Emphasizing the obligation of all States parties to the Convention to take legislative, judicial and other measures in order to secure full implementation of the provisions of the Convention,
	Recalling its resolution 47/111 of 16 December 1992, in which it welcomed the decision, taken on 15 January 1992 by the Fourteenth Meeting of States Parties to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,4 to amend paragraph 6 of article 8 of the Convention and to add a new paragraph, as paragraph 7 of article 8, with a view to providing for the financing of the Committee from the regular budget of the United Nations, and reiterating its deep concern that the amendment to the Convention has not yet entered into force,
	Stressing the importance of enabling the Committee to function smoothly and to have all necessary facilities for the effective performance of its functions under the Convention,

            I

            Reports of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination

	1.	Takes note of the reports of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination on its fifty-fourth and fifty-fifth5 and its fifty-sixth and fifty-seventh sessions;6
	2.	Commends the Committee for its continuing efforts to contribute to the effective implementation of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,1 especially the examination of reports under article 9 and action on communications under article 14 of the Convention, which contribute to the fight against racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance;
	3.	Calls upon States parties to fulfil their obligation, under paragraph 1 of article 9 of the Convention, to submit their periodic reports on measures taken to implement the Convention in due time;
	4.	Expresses its concern at the fact that a great number of reports are overdue and continue to be overdue, in particular initial reports, which constitutes an obstacle to the full implementation of the Convention;
	5.	Encourages States parties to the Convention whose reports are seriously overdue to avail themselves of the advisory services and technical assistance that the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights can provide, upon their request, for the preparation of the reports;
	6.	Commends the Committee for its continuing contribution to the prevention of racial discrimination, and welcomes its relevant action thereon;
	7.	Encourages the Committee to continue to contribute fully to the implementation of the Third Decade to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination and its revised Programme of Action,7 including by continuing to cooperate and exchange information with United Nations bodies and mechanisms and intergovernmental organizations, in particular with the Subcommission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights and with the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, as well as with non-governmental organizations;
	8.	Encourages States parties to continue to include a gender perspective in their reports to the Committee, and invites the Committee to take into account a gender perspective in the implementation of its mandate;
	9.	Takes note with interest of the contributions by the Committee to the preparatory process for the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, including undertaking a series of studies, making suggestions for the agenda and draft programme of action of the World Conference, and preparing an assessment of the best practices of States parties in combating racial discrimination;
	10.	Invites the Committee to continue to participate actively in the preparatory process for the World Conference and at the Conference itself;
	11.	Encourages all States, relevant United Nations bodies, international and regional organizations and non-governmental organizations to draw attention to the Convention and to the work of the Committee during the information and awareness-raising campaign for the World Conference and the International Year of Mobilization against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance;

            II

            Financial situation of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination

	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the financial situation of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination;8
	2.	Expresses its profound concern about the fact that a number of States parties to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination1 have still not fulfilled their financial obligations, as shown in the report of the Secretary-General, and strongly appeals to all States parties that are in arrears to fulfil their outstanding financial obligations under article 8, paragraph 6, of the Convention;
	3.	Strongly urges States parties to the Convention to accelerate their domestic ratification procedures with regard to the amendment to the Convention concerning the financing of the Committee and to notify the Secretary-General expeditiously in writing of their agreement to the amendment, as decided upon at the Fourteenth Meeting of States Parties to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination on 15 January 1992,4 endorsed by the General Assembly in its resolution 47/111 and further reiterated at the Sixteenth Meeting of States Parties on 16 January 1996;
	4.	Requests the Secretary-General to continue to ensure adequate financial arrangements and to provide the necessary support, including an adequate level of Secretariat assistance, in order to ensure the functioning of the Committee and to enable it to cope with its increasing amount of work;
	5.	Also requests the Secretary-General to invite those States parties to the Convention that are in arrears to pay the amounts in arrears, and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session;

            III

            Status of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms 
            of Racial Discrimination

	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General9 on the status of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination;1
	2.	Expresses its satisfaction at the number of States that have ratified the Convention or acceded thereto, which now stands at one hundred and fifty-six;
	3.	Reaffirms once again its conviction that ratification of or accession to the Convention on a universal basis and the implementation of its provisions are necessary for the realization of the objectives of the Third Decade to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination and for action beyond the Decade;
	4.	Urges all States that have not yet become parties to the Convention to ratify it or accede thereto as soon as possible, bearing in mind the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, to be held in South Africa, from 31 August to 7 September 2001;
	5.	Urges States to limit the extent of any reservation they lodge to the Convention and to formulate any reservation as precisely and as narrowly as possible in order to ensure that no reservation is incompatible with the object and purpose of the Convention or otherwise contrary to international treaty law, to review their reservations on a regular basis with a view to withdrawing them, and to withdraw reservations that are contrary to the object and purpose of the Convention or that are otherwise incompatible with international treaty law;
	6.	Requests the States parties to the Convention that have not yet done so to consider the possibility of making the declaration provided for in article 14 of the Convention;
	7.	Decides to consider, at its fifty-seventh session, under the item entitled "Elimination of racism and racial discrimination", the reports of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination on its fifty-eighth and fifty-ninth and its sixtieth and sixty-first sessions, the report of the Secretary-General on the financial situation of the Committee and the report of the Secretary-General on the status of the Convention.

81st plenary meeting
4 December 2000
1 Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.
2 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
3 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2000, Supplement No. 3 and corrigendum (E/2000/23 and Corr.1), chap. II, sect. A.
4 See CERD/SP/45, annex.
5 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 18 and addendum (A/54/18 and Add.1).
6 Ibid., Fifty-fifth Session, Supplement No. 18 and addendum (A/55/18 and Add.1).
7 Resolution 49/146, annex.
8 A/55/266.
9 A/55/203.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0056425E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/55/81<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

A/RES/55/81


A/RES/55/81


4
    

3
    

United NationsA/RES/55/81General AssemblyDistr.: General
26 February 2001Fifty-fifth session
Agenda item 112

00 56425

