[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly

[on the report of the Third Committee (A/55/602/Add.2 and Corr.1)]
55/102.	Globalization and its impact on the full enjoyment of all human rights


	The General Assembly,
	Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, and expressing in particular the need to achieve international cooperation in promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction,
	Recalling the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,1 as well as the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993,2
	Recalling also the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights3 and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,3
	Recalling further the Declaration on the Right to Development adopted by the General Assembly in its resolution 41/128 of 4 December 1986,
	Recalling the United Nations Millennium Declaration4 and the outcome documents of the twenty-third5 and twenty-fourth6 special sessions of the General Assembly, held, respectively, in New York from 5 to 10 June 2000 and Geneva from 26 June to 1 July 2000,
	Recognizing that all human rights are universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated and that the international community must treat human rights globally in a fair and equal manner, on the same footing and with the same emphasis,
	Realizing that globalization affects all countries differently and makes them more exposed to external developments, positive as well as negative, including in the field of human rights,
	Realizing also that globalization is not merely an economic process but also has social, political, environmental, cultural and legal dimensions which have an impact on the full enjoyment of all human rights,
	Recognizing that multilateral mechanisms have a unique role to play in meeting the challenges and opportunities presented by globalization,
	Expressing concern at the negative impact of international financial turbulence on social and economic development and on the full enjoyment of all human rights,
	Deeply concerned that the widening gap between the developed and the developing countries, and within countries, has contributed, inter alia, to deepening poverty and has adversely affected the full enjoyment of all human rights, in particular in developing countries,
	Noting that human beings strive for a world that is respectful of human rights and cultural diversity and that, in this regard, they work to ensure that all activities, including those affected by globalization, are consistent with those aims,
	1.	Recognizes that, while globalization, by its impact on, inter alia, the role of the State, may affect human rights, the promotion and protection of all human rights is first and foremost the responsibility of the State;
	2.	Reaffirms that narrowing the gap between rich and poor, both within and between countries, is an explicit goal at the national and international levels, as part of the effort to create an enabling environment for the full enjoyment of all human rights;
	3.	Reaffirms also the commitment to create an environment at both the national and global levels that is conducive to development and to the elimination of poverty through, inter alia, good governance within each country and at the international level, transparency in the financial, monetary and trading systems and commitment to an open, equitable, rule-based, predictable and non-discriminatory multilateral trading and financial system;
	4.	Recognizes that, while globalization offers great opportunities, its benefits are very unevenly shared and its costs are unevenly distributed, an aspect of the process that affects the full enjoyment of all human rights, in particular in developing countries;
	5.	Recognizes also that, only through broad and sustained efforts, including policies and measures at the global level to create a shared future based upon our common humanity in all its diversity, can globalization be made fully inclusive and equitable and have a human face, thus contributing to the full enjoyment of all human rights;
	6.	Affirms that globalization is a complex process of structural transformation, with numerous interdisciplinary aspects, which has an impact on the enjoyment of civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights, including the right to development;
	7.	Affirms also that the international community should strive to respond to the challenges and opportunities posed by globalization in a manner that ensures respect for the cultural diversity of all;
	8.	Underlines therefore the need to continue to analyse the consequences of globalization for the full enjoyment of all human rights;
	9.	Takes note of the preliminary report of the Secretary-General on globalization and its impact on the full enjoyment of all human rights,7 and requests the Secretary-General, taking into account the different views of Member States, to submit a comprehensive report on this subject to the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session.


81st plenary meeting
4 December 2000
1 Resolution 217 A (III).
2 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
3 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
4 See resolution 55/2.
5 Resolutions S-23/2 and S-23/3.
6 Resolution S-24/2.
7 A/55/342.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0056551E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/55/102<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

A/RES/55/102


A/RES/55/102


2
    

3
    

United NationsA/RES/55/102General AssemblyDistr.: General
2 March 2001Fifty-fifth session
Agenda item 114 (b)

00 56551

