UNITED						A
NATIONS



			General Assembly



									Distr.
									GENERAL

									A/RES/48/12
							            9 November 1993






Forty-eighth session
Agenda item 112


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[without reference to a Main Committee (A/48/L.12)]


48/12.Measures to strengthen international cooperation against the illicit production, sale, demand, traffic and distribution of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and related activities


	The General Assembly,

	Profoundly alarmed by the magnitude of the rising trend in drug abuse, illicit production of and trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances that threaten the health and well-being of millions of persons, in particular the youth, in all the countries of the world,

	Deeply concerned by the growth of the drug problem which entails increasing economic costs for those Governments which seek to combat it, causes irreparable loss of human lives and threatens the economic, social and political structures of the countries affected by acts of violence,

	Deeply alarmed by the growing violence and economic power of the criminal organizations that engage in the production, trafficking and distribution of drugs, arms and precursors and essential chemicals, which at times place them beyond the reach of the law,

	Bearing in mind the provisions of its resolution 47/99 of 16 December 1992, in which it decided to hold four high-level plenary meetings to improve international cooperation in the fight against drugs, in accordance with the international treaties on drug control, the Comprehensive and Multidisciplinary Outline of Future Activities in Drug Abuse Control adopted 



by the International Conference on Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, 1/ the Global Programme of Action adopted at its seventeenth special session, 2/ on 23 February 1990, and other relevant documents,

	Reaffirming that action against drug abuse and illicit production of and trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances should be accorded a higher priority by Governments, the United Nations and all other relevant national, regional and international organizations,

	Taking note of the existing drug conventions, the Global Programme of Action and the United Nations System-Wide Action Plan on Drug Abuse 
Control, 3/ which contain a sound and comprehensive framework for drug control activities by States and all relevant international organizations, and stressing the need for consistency in efforts to implement these instruments,

	Welcoming the efforts of the international community and the unflinching commitment assumed at the highest level by heads of State and/or Government to increase substantially efforts to achieve coordinated action and set priorities in the international fight against abuse, illicit production and trafficking in drugs,

	Convinced that, given the magnitude and the global nature of the drug problem, it is indispensable for Governments to increase efforts in order to intensify concerted action and international cooperation based on the principle of shared responsibility,

	Acknowledging that there are obvious links, under certain circumstances, between poverty and the increase in the illicit production of and trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and that the promotion of the economic development of countries affected by the illicit drug trade requires appropriate measures, including strengthened international cooperation in support for alternative development activities in the affected areas in those countries,

	Acknowledging also the responsibility of Governments in alleviating poverty, reducing the dependency of their citizens on narcotics and narcotics production and enforcing legal measures against narcotics,

	Recognizing that the magnitude of the drug menace requires the formulation of new strategies, approaches, objectives and enhanced international cooperation that, respectful of the sovereignty of States, deal more effectively with the international operations of those who get rich through the illegal traffic in drugs, arms and precursors and essential chemicals, threatening the stability of many societies in the world,



____________

	1/	See Report of the International Conference on Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, Vienna, 17-26 June 1987 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.87.I.18), chap. I, sect. A.

	2/	See resolution S-17/2, annex.

	3/	E/1990/39 and Corr.1 and 2 and Add.1.
	1.	Renews its commitment further to strengthen international cooperation and increase substantially efforts against the illicit production, sale, demand, trafficking and distribution of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, based on the principle of shared responsibility and taking into account experience gained;

	2.	Calls upon States that have not yet done so to ratify and to implement fully all provisions of the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961, 4/ and that Convention as amended by the 1972 Protocol, 5/ the Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1971, 6/ and the United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of 1988; 7/

	3.	Calls upon all States to adopt adequate national laws and regulations, to strengthen national judicial systems and to carry out effective drug control activities in cooperation with other States in compliance with those international instruments;

	4.	Underlines the role of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs as the principal United Nations policy-making body on drug control issues;

	5.	Reaffirms the leadership role of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme as the main focus for concerted international action for drug abuse control and as international coordinator of drug control activities, especially within the United Nations system;

	6.	Calls upon States to take all necessary steps to implement the recommendations contained in the Global Programme of Action at the national, regional and international levels;

	7.	Reaffirms that the contribution of United Nations programmes and agencies to the implementation of the Global Programme of Action should continue to be coordinated in accordance with the United Nations System-Wide Action Plan on Drug Abuse Control, and that States represented in the governing bodies of the programmes and agencies concerned should ensure that their agendas consistently reflect and accord adequate priority to drug control activities;

	8.	Requests the Economic and Social Council at its coordination segment in 1994 to examine the status of international cooperation within the United Nations system against the illicit production, sale, demand, trafficking and distribution of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances in order to recommend ways and means to improve such cooperation and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session;

____________

	4/	United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 520, No. 7515.

	5/	Ibid., vol. 976, No. 14152.

	6/	Ibid., vol. 1019, No. 14956.

	7/	United Nations publication, Sales No. E.91.XI.6.

	9.	Requests the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, with the support of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme and in cooperation with the International Narcotics Control Board, to monitor and evaluate action at the national and international level in implementing the international drug control instruments, with a view to identifying areas of satisfactory progress and weakness, and to recommend to the high-level segment of the Economic and Social Council in 1995 appropriate adjustments of drug control activities whenever required;

	10.	Requests the Commission on Narcotic Drugs and the Economic and Social Council, with the assistance of the United Nations International Drug Control Programme and the International Narcotics Control Board, to consider and make recommendations on the following issues, on the basis of the principle of shared responsibility and a balanced, comprehensive and multidisciplinary approach, and without excluding any other aspects that could be addressed:

	(a)	Reinforcement of policies and strategies for the prevention, reduction and elimination of illicit demand, with particular emphasis on the need for each Government to place a higher priority on treatment, rehabilitation, information and educational campaigns to reduce demand;

	(b)	Consideration of ways to strengthen and enhance international anti-drug cooperation in programmes of alternative development in order to eliminate illicit drug production and trafficking within the framework of sustainable development, with a view to improving living conditions and contributing to the eradication of extreme poverty;

	(c)	Careful review of the different aspects of the problem and recommendation to Governments of those areas in which updating and harmonizing national laws and regulations may be appropriate;

	(d)	Strengthening of the international fight against international criminal drug organizations, which pose serious threats to the efforts to build and strengthen democracy, maintain sustainable economic growth and protect the environment;

	(e)	Taking into account of the situation of transit and producing countries and the crucial role they play in this struggle, with a view to assisting their efforts;

	(f)	Strengthening of international cooperation to eradicate the growing and dangerous links between terrorist groups, drug traffickers and their paramilitary gangs and other armed criminal groups, which have resorted to all types of violence, thus undermining the democratic institutions of States and violating basic human rights;

	(g)	Examination of the question of penalties for offences related to drug trafficking, including money laundering and traffic in arms, and making recommendations thereon;






	(h)	Increasing of attention to implementing all provisions of the United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, with special emphasis on targeting the profits and money-laundering operations of drug traffickers, strengthening interdiction procedures by land, sea and air and enforcing the control of precursors and essential chemicals;

	(i)	Promotion and intensification of human resources development, including the implementation of training programmes to deal with illicit demand, supply and trafficking;

	(j)	Promotion and encouragement of the active involvement of non-governmental organizations and the private sector in the various aspects of the drug problem;

	(k)	Taking into consideration, in the course of their work, of the recommendations contained in the final report of the Secretary-General on the implementation by Member States of the Global Programme of Action; 8/

	11.	Invites the Commission on Narcotic Drugs at its next session to take the necessary measures to implement the present resolution, including  consideration of the convening of an ad hoc expert group to contribute to the examination of the issues above and to the identification of concrete action-oriented recommendations, and to report on its findings to the General Assembly at its fiftieth session, through the Economic and Social Council.

	42nd plenary meeting
	28 October 1993



















____________

	8/	A/48/286.


	/...


	/...

A/RES/48/12
Page 1



	A/RES/48/12
	Page 1




	/...


	/...

A/RES/48/12
Page 5



	A/RES/48/12
	Page 5




	/...


	/...

	A/RES/48/12
	Page 5



