[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 19 December 2006
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/61/437 and Corr.1)]
61/141.	Implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for Social Development and of the twenty-fourth special session of the General Assembly


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling the World Summit for Social Development, held at Copenhagen from 6 to 12 March 1995, and the twenty-fourth special session of the General Assembly entitled "World Summit for Social Development and beyond: achieving social development for all in a globalizing world", held at Geneva from 26 June to 1 July 2000,
	Reaffirming that the Copenhagen Declaration on Social Development and the Programme of Action1 and the further initiatives for social development adopted by the General Assembly at its twenty-fourth special session,2 as well as a continued global dialogue on social development issues, constitute the basic framework for the promotion of social development for all at the national and international levels,
	Recalling the United Nations Millennium Declaration3 and the development goals contained therein, as well as the commitments made at major United Nations summits, conferences and special sessions, including the commitments made at the 2005 World Summit,4
	Recalling also its resolution 60/209 of 22 December 2005 on the implementation of the first United Nations Decade for the Eradication of Poverty (1997-2006),
	Recalling further its resolution 57/270 B of 23 June 2003 on the integrated and coordinated implementation of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and summits in the economic and social fields, 
	Emphasizing the need to enhance the role of the Commission for Social Development in the follow-up and review of the World Summit for Social Development and the outcome of the twenty-fourth special session of the General Assembly,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;5
	2.	Welcomes the reaffirmation by Governments of their will and commitment to continue implementing the Copenhagen Declaration on Social Development and the Programme of Action,1 in particular to eradicate poverty, promote full and productive employment and foster social integration to achieve stable, safe and just societies for all; 
	3.	Recognizes that the implementation of the Copenhagen commitments and the attainment of the internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals, are mutually reinforcing and that the Copenhagen commitments are crucial to a coherent people-centred approach to development; 
	4.	Reaffirms that the Commission for Social Development continues to have the primary responsibility for the follow-up and review of the World Summit for Social Development and the outcome of the twenty-fourth special session of the General Assembly and that it serves as the main United Nations forum for an intensified global dialogue on social development issues, and calls upon Member States, the relevant specialized agencies, funds and programmes of the United Nations system and civil society to enhance their support for its work; 
	5.	Recognizes that the broad concept of social development affirmed by the World Summit for Social Development and the twenty-fourth special session of the General Assembly has been weakened in national and international policymaking and that, while poverty eradication is a central part of development policy and discourse, further attention should be given to the other commitments agreed to at the Summit, in particular those concerning employment and social integration, which have also suffered from a general disconnect between economic and social policymaking;
	6.	Acknowledges that the first United Nations Decade for the Eradication of Poverty (1997-2006), launched after the World Summit for Social Development, has provided the long-term vision for sustained and concerted efforts at the national and international levels to eradicate poverty, and recognizes that the implementation of the commitments made by Governments during the Decade has fallen short of expectations;
	7.	Emphasizes that the major United Nations conferences and summits, including the Millennium Summit and the 2005 World Summit, have reinforced the priority and urgency of poverty eradication within the United Nations development agenda; 
	8.	Also emphasizes that poverty eradication policies should attack poverty by addressing its root and structural causes and manifestations, and that equity and the reduction of inequalities need to be incorporated in those policies; 
	9.	Stresses that an enabling environment is a critical precondition for achieving equity and social development and that, while economic growth is essential, entrenched inequality and marginalization are an obstacle to the broad-based and sustained growth required for sustainable, inclusive people-centred development, and recognizes the need to balance and ensure complementarity between measures to achieve growth and measures to achieve economic and social equity in order for there to be an impact on overall poverty levels;
	10.	Also stresses that policies and programmes designed to achieve poverty eradication should include specific measures to foster social integration, including by providing marginalized socio-economic sectors and groups with equal access to opportunities and social protection;
	11.	Reaffirms that social integration policies should seek to reduce inequalities, promote access to basic social services, education for all and health care, increase the participation and integration of social groups, particularly youth, older persons and persons with disabilities, and address the challenges posed by globalization and market-driven reforms to social development in order for all people in all countries to benefit from globalization; 
	12.	Recognizes the need to promote respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms in order to address the most pressing social needs of people living in poverty, including through the design and development of appropriate mechanisms to strengthen and consolidate democratic institutions and governance;
	13.	Reaffirms the commitment to the empowerment of women and gender equality and to strengthening policies and programmes that improve, ensure and broaden the full participation of women in all spheres of political, economic, social and cultural life, as equal partners, and to improving their access to all resources needed for the full exercise of all their human rights and fundamental freedoms by removing persistent barriers;
	14.	Welcomes the ministerial declaration, adopted at the high-level segment of the substantive session of 2006 of the Economic and Social Council, on "Creating an environment at the national and international levels conducive to generating full and productive employment and decent work for all, and its impact on sustainable development";6
	15.	Reaffirms that there is an urgent need to create an environment at the national and international levels that is conducive to the attainment of full and productive employment and decent work for all as a foundation for sustainable development and that an environment that supports investment, growth and entrepreneurship is essential to the creation of new job opportunities, and also reaffirms that opportunities for men and women to obtain productive work in conditions of freedom, equity, security and human dignity are essential to ensuring the eradication of hunger and poverty, the improvement of economic and social well-being for all, the achievement of sustained economic growth and sustainable development of all nations and a fully inclusive and equitable globalization;
	16.	Also reaffirms the commitment to employment policies that promote full and productive employment and decent work for all under conditions of equity, equality, security and dignity, and further reaffirms that employment creation should be incorporated into macroeconomic policies; 
	17.	Further reaffirms the commitments made in respect of "Meeting the special needs of Africa" at the 2005 World Summit,7 underlines the call of the Economic and Social Council for enhanced coordination within the United Nations system and the ongoing efforts to harmonize the current initiatives on Africa, and requests the Commission for Social Development to continue to give due prominence in its work to the social dimensions of the New Partnership for Africa's Development;8
	18.	Reaffirms that each country has the primary responsibility for its own economic and social development and that the role of national policies and development strategies cannot be overemphasized, and underlines the importance of adopting effective measures, including new financial mechanisms, as appropriate, to support the efforts of developing countries to achieve sustained economic growth, sustainable development, poverty eradication and the strengthening of their democratic systems; 
	19.	Also reaffirms, in this context, that international cooperation has an essential role in assisting developing countries, including the least developed countries, in strengthening their human, institutional and technological capacity;
	20.	Stresses that the international community shall enhance its efforts to create an enabling environment for social development and poverty eradication through increasing market access for developing countries, technology transfer on mutually agreed terms, financial aid and a comprehensive solution to the external debt problem;
	21.	Acknowledges that good governance and the rule of law at the national and international levels are essential for sustained economic growth, sustainable development and the eradication of poverty and hunger; 
	22.	Urges developed countries that have not yet done so in accordance with their commitments, to make concrete efforts towards meeting the targets of 0.7 per cent of their gross national product for official development assistance to developing countries and 0.15 to 0.2 per cent of their gross national product to least developed countries, and encourages developing countries to build on the progress achieved in ensuring that official development assistance is used effectively to help meet development goals and targets;
	23.	Welcomes the contribution to the mobilization of resources for social development by the initiatives on a voluntary basis taken by groups of Member States based on innovative financing mechanisms, including those that aim to provide further drug access at affordable prices to developing countries on a sustainable and predictable basis, such as the International Drug Purchase Facility, UNITAID, as well as other initiatives, such as the International Finance Facility for Immunisation, and notes the New York Declaration of 20 September 2004, which launched the Action against Hunger and Poverty initiative and called for further attention to raise funds urgently needed to help meet the Millennium Development Goals and to complement and ensure long-term stability and predictability to foreign aid;
	24.	Reaffirms that social development requires the active involvement of all actors in the development process, including civil society organizations, corporations and small businesses, and that partnerships among all relevant actors are increasingly becoming part of national and international cooperation for social development, and also reaffirms that, within countries, partnerships among the Government, civil society and the private sector can contribute effectively to the achievement of social development goals; 
	25.	Underlines the responsibility of the private sector, at both the national and the international levels, including small and large companies and transnational corporations, regarding not only the economic and financial but also the development, social, gender and environmental implications of their activities, their obligations towards their workers and their contributions to achieving sustainable development, including social development, and emphasizes the need to take concrete actions on corporate responsibility and accountability, including through the participation of all relevant stakeholders, inter alia, for the prevention or prosecution of corruption;
	26.	Invites the Secretary-General, the Economic and Social Council, the regional commissions, the relevant specialized agencies, funds and programmes of the United Nations system and other intergovernmental forums, within their respective mandates, to continue to integrate into their work programmes and give priority attention to the Copenhagen commitments and the Declaration on the tenth anniversary of the World Summit for Social Development,9 to continue to be actively involved in their follow-up and to monitor the achievement of those commitments and undertakings; 
	27.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-second session the sub-item entitled "Implementation of the outcome of the World Summit for Social Development and of the twenty-fourth special session of the General Assembly", and requests the Secretary-General to submit a report on the question to the Assembly at that session.

81st plenary meeting
19 December 2006
1 Report of the World Summit for Social Development, Copenhagen, 6-12 March 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.8), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.
2 Resolution S-24/2, annex.
3 See resolution 55/2.
4 See resolution 60/1.
5 A/61/99.
6 See A/61/3, chap. III, para. 50. For the final text, see Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-first Session, Supplement No. 3.
7 See resolution 60/1, para. 68.
8 A/57/304, annex.
9 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2005, Supplement No. 6 (E/2005/26), chap. I, sect. A; see also Economic and Social Council decision 2005/234.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0650289E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/61/141<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/61/141General AssemblyDistr.: General
30 January 2007Sixty-first session
Agenda item 60 (a)

06-50289

A/RES/61/141

A/RES/61/141

4

5

