[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 22 December 2004
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/59/483/Add.3)]
59/231.	International Strategy for Disaster Reduction


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 44/236 of 22 December 1989, 49/22 A of 2 December 1994, 49/22 B of 20 December 1994, 53/185 of 15 December 1998, 54/219 of 22 December 1999, 56/195 of 21 December 2001, 57/256 of 20 December 2002 and 58/214 of 23 December 2003 and Economic and Social Council resolutions 1999/63 of 30 July 1999 and 2001/35 of 26 July 2001, and taking into due consideration its resolution 57/270 B of 23 June 2003 on integrated and coordinated implementation of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and summits in the economic and social fields,
	Recalling also the inclusion of the item entitled "Disaster management and vulnerability" in the multi-year programme of work of the Commission on Sustainable Development,1
	Reiterating that, although natural disasters damage the social and economic infrastructure of all countries, the long-term consequences of natural disasters are especially severe for developing countries and hamper the achievement of their sustainable development, 
	Recognizing the urgent need to further develop and make use of the existing scientific and technical knowledge to build resilience to natural disasters, and emphasizing the need for developing countries to have access to technology so as to tackle natural disasters effectively, 
	Expressing its deep concern at the number and scale of natural disasters and their increasing impact within recent years, which have resulted in massive loss of life and long-term negative social, economic and environmental consequences for vulnerable societies throughout the world, in particular in developing countries, 
	Recognizing the need to continue to develop an understanding of, and to address, socio-economic activities that exacerbate the vulnerability of societies to natural disasters and to build and further strengthen community capability to cope with disaster risks, 
	Emphasizing that disaster reduction, including reducing vulnerability to natural disasters, is an important element that contributes to the achievement of sustainable development, 
	Stressing the importance of advancing the implementation of the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development,2 and its relevant provisions on vulnerability, risk assessment and disaster management, 
	Noting the ongoing work of all the working groups established by the Inter-Agency Task Force for Disaster Reduction, namely the Working Group on Climate Change and Disaster Risk Reduction, the Working Group on Disaster Reduction in Africa, the Working Group on Risk, Vulnerability and Disaster Impact Assessment and the Working Group on the World Conference on Disaster Reduction, 
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the International Strategy for Disaster Reduction;3
	2.	Invites Governments and relevant international organizations to consider disaster risk assessment as an integral component of development plans and poverty eradication programmes;
	3.	Welcomes the work of the ongoing preparatory process for the World Conference on Disaster Reduction, to be held in Kobe, Japan, from 18 to 22 January 2005; 
	4.	Notes with appreciation the generous pledge made by the Government of Japan to cover costs of the World Conference, and welcomes the voluntary contributions already made to facilitate the participation of representatives of developing countries, in particular the least developed countries, in that event, and invites those States that have not yet done so to make such voluntary contributions;
	5.	Reiterates its invitation to Member States, all United Nations bodies and the specialized agencies and other relevant intergovernmental agencies and organizations, in particular the members of the Inter-Agency Task Force for Disaster Reduction, to participate actively in the World Conference; 
	6.	Encourages major groups, as identified in Agenda 21,4 to contribute further to and actively participate in the World Conference, according to the rules of procedure agreed upon by its Preparatory Committee; 
	7.	Stresses the importance of close cooperation and coordination between the relevant institutions, in particular within the United Nations system and with other relevant international organizations, in both the preparation of and follow-up to the World Conference, within their mandate and taking into account their comparative advantages and the need to avoid any duplication of work; 
	8.	Also stresses that continued cooperation and coordination among Governments, the United Nations system, other organizations, regional organizations, non-governmental organizations and other partners, as appropriate, are considered essential to address effectively the impact of natural disasters;
	9.	Recognizes the importance of linking disaster risk management with regional frameworks, as appropriate, such as with the New Partnership for Africa's Development,5 to address issues of poverty eradication and sustainable development;
	10.	Also recognizes the importance of integrating a gender perspective as well as of engaging women in the design and implementation of all phases of disaster management, particularly in the disaster reduction stage; 
	11.	Stresses the importance of identifying, assessing and managing risks prior to the occurrence of disasters, for which it is necessary to combine the efforts at all levels of the development, humanitarian, scientific and environmental communities, as well as the importance of integrating disaster reduction, as appropriate, into development plans and poverty eradication programmes;
	12.	Also stresses the need to foster better understanding and knowledge of the causes of disasters, as well as to build and strengthen coping capacities through, inter alia, the transfer and exchange of experiences and technical knowledge, access to relevant data and information and the strengthening of institutional arrangements, including community-based organizations; 
	13.	Recognizes the importance of early warning as an essential element of disaster reduction, recommends the implementation of the outcome of the Second International Conference on Early Warning, held in Bonn, Germany, from 16 to 18 October 2003, and takes note of further work done in this regard, including the establishment of the Platform for the Promotion of Early Warning6 in Bonn;
	14.	Calls upon Governments to establish national platforms or focal points for disaster reduction, encourages the platforms to share relevant information on standards and practices, encourages Governments to strengthen platforms where they already exist, urges the United Nations system to provide appropriate support for those mechanisms, and invites the Secretary-General to strengthen the regional outreach of the inter-agency secretariat for the International Strategy for Disaster Reduction in order to ensure such support; 
	15.	Requests the Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs, in his capacity as Chairman of the Inter-Agency Task Force for Disaster Reduction, to continue reviewing annually the work carried out by its working groups in order to ensure their effective contribution to the attainment of the objectives of the Strategy; 
	16.	Expresses its appreciation to those countries that have provided financial support for the activities of the Strategy by making voluntary contributions to the Trust Fund for the International Strategy for Disaster Reduction; 
	17.	Encourages the international community to provide the necessary financial resources to the Trust Fund for the Strategy and to provide the necessary scientific, technical, human and other resources to ensure adequate support for the activities of the inter-agency secretariat for the Strategy and the Inter-Agency Task Force for Disaster Reduction and its working groups;
	18.	Requests the Secretary-General to allocate adequate financial and administrative resources, within existing resources, for the effective functioning of the inter-agency secretariat for the Strategy; 
	19.	Also requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its sixtieth session a report on the implementation of the present resolution, in particular on the outcome of the World Conference on Disaster Reduction, under the item entitled "Sustainable development".

75th plenary meeting
22 December 2004
1 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2003, Supplement No. 9 (E/2003/29), chap. I, sect. A.
2 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 2, annex.
3 A/59/228.
4 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro,
3-14 June 1992 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigenda), vol. I: Resolutions adopted by the Conference, resolution 1, annex II.
5 A/57/304, annex.
6 A/CONF.206/PC(II)/4, para. 14 (ix).
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0449012E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/59/231<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

4
    

4

United NationsA/RES/59/231General AssemblyDistr.: General
22 February 2005Fifty-ninth session
Agenda item 85 (c)

04-49012

A/RES/59/231

A/RES/59/231

4

3

