<<ODS JOB NO>>N9676795E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/50/124<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>

UNITED						A
NATIONS



			General Assembly



									Distr.
									GENERAL

									A/RES/50/124
									23 February 1996






Fiftieth session
Agenda item 102


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Second Committee (A/50/624)]


50/124.Implementation of the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development

	The General Assembly,

	Recalling its resolutions 49/128 of 19 December 1994 on the report of the International Conference on Population and Development, 1/ and 48/162 of 20 December 1993 on the restructuring and revitalization of the United Nations in the economic, social and related fields,

	Recalling also Economic and Social Council decision 1994/227 of 14 July 1994, by which the Council approved the provisional agenda and documentation for the twenty-eighth session of the then Population Commission, including discussion of the implications of the recommendations of the International Conference on Population and Development,

	Recalling further Economic and Social Council resolution 1995/55 of 28 July 1995 on the implementation of the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development, 2/  by which the Council endorsed the terms of reference proposed by the renamed Commission on Population and Development in its report on its twenty-eighth session, 3/ which reflect the comprehensive and integrated nature of population and development,


	Acknowledging fully the integrated approach taken during the International Conference on Population and Development, which recognizes the interrelationship between population, sustained economic growth and sustainable development,

	Having considered the report of the Secretary-General 4/ on the implementation of General Assembly resolution 49/128 on the report of the International Conference on Population and Development,

	Recognizing that the implementation of the recommendations contained in the Programme of Action is the sovereign right of every country, in accordance with its national laws and development priorities, with full respect for the various religious and ethical values and cultural backgrounds of its peoples and in conformity with universally recognized international human rights,

	Reaffirming the importance of the principles and concepts set out in the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development 5/ and Agenda 21 6/ for the purpose of implementing the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development, and in that regard recognizing that chapter 5 of Agenda 21 6/ and chapter III of the Programme of Action 2/ reinforce one another and together form a comprehensive and compelling up-to-date account of what needs to be done about the interface between population, environment and sustainable development,

	Noting with satisfaction the contribution that the outcome of the International Conference on Population and Development has made to the World Summit for Social Development and the Fourth World Conference on Women, and expressing its belief in the contribution that the outcome of the International Conference on Population and Development will make to the forthcoming United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and in the elaboration of an agenda for development, in particular with regard to the call for a greater investment in people,

	1.	Notes the action taken so far by Governments and the international community to implement the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development, and encourages them to strengthen their efforts in that regard;

	2.	Reiterates its commitment to the full implementation of the Programme of Action, and reaffirms that Governments should continue to commit themselves at the highest political level to achieving its goals and objectives, which reflect a new integrated approach to population and development, and to take a lead role in coordinating the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the follow-up actions;

	3.	Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General 4/ on the implementation of General Assembly resolution 49/128 and of the proposals contained therein;

	4.	Takes note of the following proposals made by the United Nations Population Fund in the above-mentioned report:

	(a)	To replace the biennial report of the Fund to the Commission on Population and Development on multilateral population assistance by an annual report on the amount of financial resources allocated for the implementation of the Programme of Action at the national and international levels;

	(b)	To refine and improve further, where necessary, the current system devoted to monitoring the amount of international assistance for programmes dealing with population and development so as to render it more accurate;

	5.	Endorses Economic and Social Council decision 1995/320 of 12 December 1995, by which it enlarged the membership of the Commission on Population and Development from 27 to 47 members, elected by the Council from among the members of the United Nations and members of its specialized agencies, in time to take part in the twenty-ninth session of the Commission, and that the regional representation would be 12 for African States, 11 for Asian States, 5 for Eastern European States, 9 for Latin American and Caribbean States and 10 for Western European and Other States, bearing in mind that the representatives of Governments that are to serve on the Commission should have a relevant background in population and development, in order to ensure that it fulfils its functions as reflected in its updated and enhanced mandate, taking into account the integrated multidisciplinary and comprehensive approach of the Programme of Action and the membership of the other functional commissions of the Council;

	6.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on monitoring world population trends and policies, 7/ and of the Executive Director of the United Nations Population Fund on monitoring multilateral population assistance; 8/

	7.	Renews its call to all Governments, organizations of the United Nations system and other major groups concerned with population and development issues, including intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, parliamentarians and other community leaders, to continue to give the widest possible dissemination to the Programme of Action, including the use of electronic data networks, to seek public support for its goals, objectives and actions, and to maintain and enhance partnership between Governments and non-governmental organizations so as to ensure their continued contributions and cooperation concerning all aspects of population and development;

	8.	Urges Governments that have not yet done so to establish appropriate national follow-up mechanisms, in partnership with non-governmental organizations, community groups and representatives of the media and the academic community, and to seek the support of parliamentarians so as to ensure the full implementation of the Programme of Action;

	9.	Reaffirms that the follow-up to the Conference, at all levels, should take fully into account that population, health, education, poverty, patterns of production and consumption, empowerment of women and the environment are closely interconnected and should be considered through an integrated approach;

	10.	Urges all countries to consider their current spending priorities with a view to making additional contributions for the implementation of the Programme of Action, taking into account the provisions of chapters XIII and XIV thereof 2/ and the economic constraints faced by developing countries, in particular the least developed among them, and emphasizes that international cooperation in the field of population and development is essential for the implementation of the recommendations adopted at the Conference; and in this context, calls upon the international community to continue to provide, both bilaterally and multilaterally, adequate and substantial support and assistance for population and development activities, including through the United Nations Population Fund and other organs and organizations of the United Nations system and the specialized agencies that will be involved in the implementation, at all levels, of the Programme of Action;

	11.	Reiterates the importance of South-South cooperation for the successful implementation of the Programme of Action;

	12.	Reaffirms that the effective implementation of the Programme of Action will require an increased commitment of financial resources, both domestically and externally, and, in this context, calls upon the developed countries to complement the national financial efforts of developing countries on population and development and to intensify their efforts to transfer new and additional resources to the developing countries, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Programme of Action, in order to ensure that population and development objectives and goals are met;

	13.	Acknowledges that countries with economies in transition should receive temporary assistance for population and development activities, in view of the difficult economic and social problems faced by those countries at present;

	14.	Urges the international community to promote a supportive international economic environment by adopting favourable macroeconomic policies aimed at promoting sustained economic growth and sustainable development;

	15.	Emphasizes the importance of the early identification and allocation of financial resources by all members of the international community, including regional financial institutions, to enable them to fulfil their commitments with regard to the implementation of the Programme of Action;

	16.	Invites the Secretary-General to ensure that adequate resources are provided for the Conference follow-up activities to be carried out by the Secretariat during 1996;

	17.	Invites the regional commissions, other regional and subregional organizations and the development banks to continue to examine and analyse the results of implementation of the Programme of Action at the regional level under their respective mandates;

	18.	Welcomes the work undertaken by the Inter-Agency Task Force on the Implementation of the Programme of Action, chaired by the Executive Director of the United Nations Population Fund, and stresses the importance of continued and enhanced cooperation and coordination by all relevant organs, organizations and programmes of the United Nations system and the specialized agencies in the implementation of the Programme of Action, and, in this context, notes the establishment of new inter-agency task forces for the follow-up to conferences, which could be relevant for the implementation and follow-up to the International Conference on Population and Development;


	19.	Emphasizes the need to maintain the momentum of the follow-up activities relating to the Conference and the Programme of Action so as to utilize, to the fullest extent possible, existing capacity within the United Nations system in the area of population and development, including the Commission on Population and Development, the Population Division of the Department for Economic and Social Information and Policy Analysis of the Secretariat and the United Nations Population Fund, other organizations, funds and programmes of the United Nations and the specialized agencies whose continued support and commitment are required for the successful implementation of the full range of activities outlined in the Programme of Action, and invites them to work closely in the preparation of reports for the Commission on Population and Development;

	20.	Requests the specialized agencies and all related organizations of the United Nations system to continue to take appropriate measures to ensure the full and effective implementation of the Programme of Action, taking into account the specific needs of developing countries, and welcomes the intention of the Secretary-General to report through the Commission on Population and Development to the Economic and Social Council at its substantive session of 1996 on the work of the Inter-Agency Task Force, for coordination purposes, and to the General Assembly at its fifty-first session, for policy implications;

	21.	Requests the Economic and Social Council:

	(a)	To consider relevant reports and give guidance on matters concerning harmonization, cooperation and coordination within the United Nations system regarding the implementation of the Programme of Action;

	(b)	To consider, as appropriate, the reports submitted by the different bodies and organs on various matters related to the Programme of Action;

	(c)	To consider the proposed report on the work of the Inter-Agency Task Force;

	22.	Requests the funds and programmes of the United Nations system and the regional commissions and funds to continue to provide their full and active support to the implementation of the Programme of Action, in particular at the field level, through the United Nations resident coordinator system, and invites the relevant specialized agencies to do the same;

	23.	Requests the Secretary-General to report, through the Economic and Social Council, to the General Assembly at its fifty-first session on the implementation of the present resolution;

	24.	Decides to include in the agenda of its fifty-first session, within existing clusters, the item entitled "Implementation of the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development".


	96th plenary meeting
	20 December 1995
     1/	Report of the International Conference on Population and Development, Cairo, 5-13 September 1994 (A/CONF.171/13/Rev.1) (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.95.XIII.18).
     2/   Ibid., chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
     3/	See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1995, Supplement No. 7 (E/1995/27), annex I.
     4/   A/50/190-E/1995/73.
     5/   See Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992 (A/CONF.151/26/Rev.1 (Vol. I and Vol. I/Corr.1, Vol. II, Vol. III and Vol. III/Corr.1)) (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigenda), vol. I: Resolutions Adopted by the Conference, resolution 1, annex I.
     6/   Ibid., annex II.
     7/	E/CN.9/1995/2.
     8/	E/CN.9/1995/4.
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------



 

 


96-76795	/...


96-76795	/...

A/RES/50/124
Page 1


	A/RES/50/124
	Page 1



96-76795	/...


96-76795	/...

A/RES/50/124
Page 2


	A/RES/50/124
	Page 2



	/...


	/...

A/RES/50/124
Page 4


	A/RES/50/124
	Page 4






