[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 17 December 2015
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/70/490)]
70/176.	Taking action against gender-related killing of women and girls


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 68/191 of 18 December 2013 on taking action against gender-related killing of women and girls, in particular the obligation to promote and protect all human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, including women and girls,
	Deeply concerned that the global prevalence of different manifestations of the gender-related killing of women and girls is reaching alarming proportions, and noting especially that one of every two women victims of homicide is killed by her intimate partner or a family member,1
	Deeply concerned also at the scourge of sexual violence in all situations, including those of conflict, and targeted mass kidnapping, rape and killing of women and girls,
	Recalling the report of the Special Rapporteur of the Human Rights Council on violence against women, its causes and consequences2 and Council resolution 20/12 of 5 July 2012 on accelerating efforts to eliminate all forms of violence against women: remedies for women who have been subjected to violence,3
	Recalling also the report of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on creating and/or strengthening synergies and linkages on violence against women and girls4 and Human Rights Council resolution 23/25 of 14 June 2013 on accelerating efforts to eliminate all forms of violence against women: preventing and responding to rape and other forms of sexual violence,5
	Recalling further its resolution 69/147 of 18 December 2014 on the intensification of efforts to eliminate all forms of violence against women and girls,
	Taking note with appreciation of the political declaration on the occasion of the twentieth anniversary of the Fourth World Conference on Women adopted by the Commission on the Status of Women at its fifty-ninth session,6 which focused on the 20-year review of the Beijing Platform for Action,7 
	Expressing its gratitude to the Government of Thailand for hosting and chairing the meeting of the open-ended intergovernmental expert group on gender-related killing of women and girls, held in Bangkok from 11 to 13 November 2014, as mandated by resolution 68/191,
	Taking note with appreciation of the recommendations of the above-mentioned expert group meeting,8
	Welcoming the Doha Declaration on Integrating Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice into the Wider United Nations Agenda to Address Social and Economic Challenges and to Promote the Rule of Law at the National and International Levels, and Public Participation,9 in particular the endeavour of Member States to mainstream a gender perspective into criminal justice systems by developing and implementing national strategies and plans, in order to promote the full protection of women and girls from all acts of violence, including gender-related killing of women and girls,
	Stressing the importance of eliminating all forms of violence against all women and girls in the public and private spheres and significantly reducing all forms of violence and related death rates everywhere, in the context of the post-2015 development agenda,10
	Stressing also that States have the obligation to promote and protect all human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, including women and girls, to take measures to prevent and investigate acts of violence against women and girls and to prosecute and punish those responsible, no matter who the perpetrators of such crimes are, and to eliminate impunity,
	Expressing appreciation for the work undertaken by the United Nations system in preventing and responding to all forms of violence against women and girls,
	Viewing with appreciation the considerable input of many civil society organizations, as well as academia, in addressing the different forms of violence against women and girls, through research and direct action in their respective communities,
	Taking note of national and international judicial decisions that condemn mass killing of women and girls,
	Remaining alarmed by the high level of impunity with regard to gender-related killing of women and girls and the fact that violence against women and girls is among the least prosecuted and punished crimes in the world,
	1.	Urges Member States to take measures to prevent, investigate, prosecute and punish acts of violence against women and girls, in particular gender-related killing, in accordance with national laws, and to act at all levels to end impunity for those responsible for committing these heinous crimes against women and girls;
	2.	Also urges Member States to strengthen their criminal justice response to gender-related killing of women and girls, in particular by taking measures to support their capacity to investigate, prosecute and punish all forms of such crime, and to consider measures in their capacities to provide, as appropriate, reparation, compensation and/or necessary legal, medical, psychological and social support to victims and their families or dependents;
	3.	Encourages Member States to consider ways to enhance international cooperation and the exchange of good practices in criminal matters related to gender-based violence, including by, as appropriate, ratifying or acceding to and implementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the Protocols thereto11 and other relevant international legal instruments;
	4.	Encourages States parties to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women12 and the Optional Protocol thereto,13 the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Optional Protocols thereto14 and the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court15 to effectively implement those instruments;
	5.	Invites Member States to take into consideration the existing practical tools, as recommended by the open-ended intergovernmental expert group on gender-related killing of women and girls at its meeting held in Bangkok from 11 to 13 November 2014, namely the Latin American model protocol for the investigation of gender-related killing of women and the recommendations for the effective investigation of the crime of femicide;16
	6.	Encourages Member States to promote integrated and comprehensive strategies to prevent all forms of violence against women and girls, including gender-related killing of women and girls, that include early and continuous educational programmes, community mobilization and awareness-raising, in order to counter attitudes and social factors that foster, justify or tolerate any violence against women and girls;
	7.	Urges Member States to adopt integrated and comprehensive responses to violence against women in order to reduce risks of gender-related killing through early intervention and risk assessment, exercise due diligence to prevent, investigate, prosecute and punish gender-related killing of women and girls, ensure equal protection of women under the law and equal access to justice, consider adopting an integrated, multidisciplinary and gender-sensitive approach to the prevention, investigation, prosecution and punishment of gender-related killing of women and girls to minimize the risk of secondary victimization in the criminal justice system and develop appropriate mechanisms and enhance capacities for forensic investigations to identify human remains and missing persons;
	8.	Encourages Member States to criminalize, prosecute and punish rape and other forms of sexual and gender-related violence against women and girls committed in all situations, including situations of conflict, taking into account international standards, and urges, where appropriate, relevant stakeholders to support the development and strengthening of the capacities of national institutions, in particular law enforcement, judicial and health systems, and of local civil society networks to provide sustainable assistance and access to justice to women and girls affected by gender-related violence;
	9.	Also encourages Member States to ensure that appropriate punishment for perpetrators of gender-related killing of women and girls are in place and are proportionate to the gravity of the offence;
	10.	Calls upon Member States to protect and support victims, drawing on the important role of civil society and ensuring effective cooperation between all relevant State agencies, including, where appropriate, the judiciary, prosecution services, law enforcement agencies, health and social services and local and regional authorities;
	11.	Urges Member States to ensure that victims and victims' survivors are informed of their rights and can participate, as appropriate, in the criminal proceedings, taking into account their dignity, well-being and safety, and that victims are supported through appropriate services;
	12.	Encourages relevant United Nations entities and agencies, in particular the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN-Women) to continue to support Member States in developing and implementing strategies and policies, upon request, at the national, regional and international levels to address and prevent gender-related killing of women and girls;
	13.	Encourages Member States and relevant United Nations entities and agencies, including the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, the Office of the High Commissioner, UN-Women and other specialized funds and programmes of the United Nations, to raise awareness regarding gender-related killing of women and girls;
	14.	Encourages Member States to collect, disaggregate, analyse and report data on gender-related killing of women and girls, according to the International Classification of Crime for Statistical Purposes endorsed by the Statistical Commission and, where appropriate, to the extent possible, involve civil society, academia, victims' representatives and relevant international organizations and provide appropriate training to relevant personnel on technical and ethical aspects of such data collection and analysis;
	15.	Requests the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime and the institutes of the United Nations crime prevention and criminal justice programme network to continue to conduct and coordinate relevant research on gender-related killing of women and girls, particularly in connection with the standardization of the collection, disaggregation, analysis and reporting of data;
	16.	Also requests the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime to prepare, in collaboration with Member States, an analytical study on gender-related killing of women and girls at the global level, containing disaggregated data, including from relevant stakeholders, on this phenomenon to illustrate its different forms and patterns;
	17.	Invites the institutes of the United Nations crime prevention and criminal justice programme network to include in their work programmes the issue of gender-related killing of women and girls with a view to promoting ways and means of more effectively preventing, investigating, prosecuting and punishing such crime, and to develop appropriate training material;
	18.	Invites Member States and other donors to provide extrabudgetary contributions for the purposes described above, in accordance with the rules and procedures of the United Nations;
	19.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its seventy-second session on the implementation of the present resolution.

80th plenary meeting
17 December 2015

1 See the Global Study on Homicide 2013 prepared by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime.
2 A/HRC/20/16.
3 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 53 and corrigendum (A/67/53 and Corr.1), chap. IV, sect. A.
4 A/HRC/23/25.
5 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 53 (A/68/53), chap. V, sect. A.
6 Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2015, Supplement No. 7 (E/2015/27), chap. I, sect. C, resolution 59/1, annex.
7 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
8 See E/CN.15/2015/16.
9 Resolution 70/174, annex. 
10 See A/68/970 and Corr.1.
11 United Nations, Treaty Series, vols. 2225, 2237, 2241 and 2326, No. 39574.
12 Ibid., vol. 1249, No. 20378.
13 Ibid., vol. 2131, No. 20378.
14 Ibid., vols. 1577, 2171 and 2173, No. 27531; and resolution 66/138, annex.
15 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2187, No. 38544.
16 See E/CN.15/2015/16, para. 8.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1544350E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/70/176<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/70/176General AssemblyDistr.: General
8 January 2016Seventieth session
Agenda item 106 

15-16930 (E)
*1516930*Please recycle 

A/RES/70/176Taking action against gender-related killing of women and girls

Taking action against gender-related killing of women and girlsA/RES/70/176

4/5

5/5

