[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 23 December 2003
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/58/484/Add.3)]

58/212.	Convention on Biological Diversity


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 55/201 of 20 December 2000, 56/197 of 21 December 2001 and 57/253 and 57/260 of 20 December 2002,
	Reiterating that the Convention on Biological Diversity1 is the key international instrument for the conservation and sustainable use of biological resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from the use of genetic resources,
	Recalling the World Summit on Sustainable Development commitments to pursue a more efficient and coherent implementation of the three objectives of the Convention and the achievement by 2010 of a significant reduction in the current rate of loss of biological diversity, which will require action at all levels, including the implementation of national biodiversity strategies and action plans and the provision of new and additional financial and technical resources to developing countries,
	Reaffirming the urgency to recognize, subject to national legislation, the rights of local and indigenous communities that are holders of traditional knowledge, innovations and practices, and, with the approval and involvement of the holders of such knowledge, innovations and practices, to develop and implement benefit-sharing mechanisms, on mutually agreed terms, for the use of such knowledge, innovations and practices,
	Expressing its deep appreciation for the generous offer of the Government of Malaysia to host the seventh meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity and the first meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety, to be held at Kuala Lumpur, respectively, from 9 to 20 February and from 23 to 27 February 2004,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Executive Secretary of the Convention on Biological Diversity, submitted by the Secretary-General to the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session;2
	2.	Notes the outcome of the open-ended intersessional meeting on the multi-year programme of work of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity up to 2010, held at Montreal, Canada, from 17 to 20 March 2003;
	3.	Notes also the outcomes of the eighth and ninth meetings of the Subsidiary Body on Scientific, Technical and Technological Advice of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity, held at Montreal, Canada, from 10 to 14 March and from 10 to 14 November 2003;
	4.	Reiterates the World Summit on Sustainable Development commitment to negotiate within the framework of the Convention on Biological Diversity, bearing in mind the Bonn Guidelines on Access to Genetic Resources and Fair and Equitable Sharing of the Benefits Arising out of their Utilization, an international regime to promote and safeguard the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising out of the utilization of genetic resources;
	5.	Reiterates also the World Summit on Sustainable Development commitment to promote the wide implementation of and continued work on the Bonn Guidelines, as an input to assist the parties when developing and drafting legislative, administrative or policy measures on access and benefit-sharing as well as contract and other arrangements under mutually-agreed terms for access and benefit-sharing;
	6.	Invites the countries that have not yet done so to ratify the Convention on Biological Diversity;
	7.	Welcomes the entry into force of the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety to the Convention on Biological Diversity,3 on 11 September 2003, and the convening of the first meeting of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety, and invites the parties to the Convention that have not yet ratified or acceded to the Protocol to consider doing so;
	8.	Emphasizes that the effective implementation of the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety will require full support from parties and relevant international organizations, and further urges parties to facilitate capacity-building in biosafety in developing countries as well as countries with economies in transition, including to develop and strengthen national capacities for making the required information available to and interacting with the Biosafety Clearing House;
	9.	Invites countries to consider ratifying or acceding to the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture;
	10.	Encourages developed countries parties to the Convention to contribute to the relevant trust funds of the Convention, in particular so as to enhance the full participation of the developing countries parties in all its activities;
	11.	Urges parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity to facilitate the transfer of technology for the effective implementation of the Convention in accordance with its provisions;
	12.	Underlines the need for increased financial and technical resources for the implementation of the Convention on Biological Diversity and the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety by developing countries as well as countries with economies in transition, and in this regard welcomes the successful and substantial third replenishment of the Global Environment Facility;
	13.	Takes note of the ongoing work of the liaison group of the secretariats and offices of the relevant subsidiary bodies of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change,4 the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa,5 and the Convention on Biological Diversity, and further encourages continuing cooperation in order to promote complementarities among the secretariats, while respecting their independent legal status;
	14.	Stresses the importance of harmonizing the reporting requirements of the biodiversity-related conventions while respecting their independent legal status;
	15.	Invites the Executive Secretary of the Convention on Biological Diversity to continue reporting to the General Assembly on the ongoing work regarding the Convention, including its Cartagena Protocol;
	16.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-ninth session the sub-item entitled "Convention on Biological Diversity".
78th plenary meeting
23 December 2003
1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1760, No. 30619.
2 A/58/191.
3 See UNEP/CBD/ExCOP/1/3 and Corr.1, part two, annex.
4 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1771, No. 30822.
5 Ibid., vol. 1954, No. 33480.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0350724E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/58/212<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/58/212General AssemblyDistr.: General
11 March 2004Fifty-eighth session
Agenda item 94 (c)

03 50724

A/RES/58/212

A/RES/58/212

2

3

