[Start1]

Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 19 December 2016
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/71/477)]
71/167.	Trafficking in women and girls


	The General Assembly, 
	Reiterating its strong condemnation of trafficking in persons, especially women and children, which constitutes a serious crime and a grave offence to human dignity and physical integrity, a violation and abuse of human rights and a challenge to sustainable development and which requires the implementation of a comprehensive approach that includes measures to prevent such trafficking, to prosecute and punish the traffickers and to protect the victims of such trafficking and a criminal justice response proportionate to the serious nature of the offence, 
	Recalling all international conventions that deal specifically with and address issues relevant to the problem of trafficking in women and girls, such as the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime1 and the Protocols thereto, in particular the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime,2 and the Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land, Sea and Air, supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime,3 the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women4 and the Optional Protocol thereto,5 the Convention on the Rights of the Child6 and the Optional Protocol thereto on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography,7 and the Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Persons and of the Exploitation of the Prostitution of Others,8 as well as relevant resolutions of the General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council and its functional commissions and the Human Rights Council on the issue, 
	Recognizing the crucial importance of the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, which entered into force on 25 December 2003 and which provided, for the first time, an internationally agreed definition of the crime of trafficking in persons aimed at the prevention of trafficking in persons, the protection of victims and the prosecution of the perpetrators, 
	Welcoming the outcome of the eighth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, held in Vienna from 17 to 21 October 2016, at which the Conference decided to continue the process to establish a review mechanism for the implementation of the Convention and the Protocols thereto, 
	Reaffirming the provisions pertaining to trafficking in women and girls contained in the outcome documents of relevant international conferences and summits, in particular the strategic objective on the issue of trafficking contained in the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action adopted by the Fourth World Conference on Women,9 
	Reaffirming also the commitment made by world leaders at the Millennium Summit, the 2005 World Summit and the high-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly on the Millennium Development Goals to devise, enforce and strengthen effective measures to combat and eliminate all forms of trafficking in persons in order to counter the demand for trafficked victims and to protect the victims, 
	Welcoming the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development,10 recognizing its integrated and indivisible nature, and acknowledging that the 2030 Agenda, inter alia, addresses the elimination of all forms of violence against all women and girls in the public and private spheres, including trafficking and sexual and other types of exploitation; the eradication of forced labour, modern slavery, human trafficking and child labour; and the ending of abuse, exploitation, trafficking, all forms of violence against and torture of children, 
	Recognizing the importance of a revitalized global partnership to ensure the implementation of the 2030 Agenda, including the implementation of the goals and targets related to ending violence against women and girls and human trafficking, and in this regard taking note with appreciation of Alliance 8.7 and of the Global Partnership to End Violence Against Children, 
	Welcoming the adoption of the outcome document of the high-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly on addressing large movements of refugees and migrants, entitled the "New York Declaration for Refugees and Migrants",11 in which it recognized that refugees and migrants in large movements are at greater risk of being trafficked and of being subjected to forced labour, 
	Welcoming in particular the efforts of States, United Nations bodies and agencies and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to combat trafficking in persons, especially women and children, including the implementation of the United Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons adopted by the General Assembly in its resolution 64/293 of 30 July 2010, 
	Recognizing the urgency of combating trafficking in persons in all its forms, including for the purposes of forced or compulsory labour, including of women migrant workers, and in this regard taking note of the adoption by the International Labour Conference on 11 June 2014, at its 103rd session, of the Protocol to the Forced Labour Convention, 1930 (No. 29), and of the Forced Labour (Supplementary Measures) Recommendation, 2014 (No. 203), of the International Labour Organization, 
	Welcoming, in the agreed conclusions adopted by the Commission on the Status of Women at its sixtieth session,12 the commitment of Governments to ensure that the rights and specific needs of women and girls affected and displaced by trafficking in persons are addressed in national and international plans, strategies and responses, 
	Noting with appreciation the steps taken, including by the human rights treaty bodies and the Special Rapporteurs of the Human Rights Council on trafficking in persons, especially women and children, on violence against women, its causes and consequences, on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography and on contemporary forms of slavery, including its causes and consequences, and other relevant special procedures mandate holders of the Council involved in human trafficking issues and the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on Violence against Children, and by United Nations agencies and other concerned intergovernmental and governmental organizations, within their existing mandates, as well as by civil society, to address the crime of trafficking in persons, and encouraging them to continue doing so and to share their knowledge and best practices as widely as possible, 
	Noting the renewal by the Human Rights Council, at its twenty-sixth session, of the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on trafficking in persons, especially women and children,13 and the fact that part of her task is to integrate a gender- and age-specific perspective throughout the work of her mandate, inter alia, through the identification of gender- and age-specific vulnerabilities in relation to the issue of trafficking in persons, 
	Acknowledging the inclusion of gender-related crimes in the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court,14 which entered into force on 1 July 2002, 
	Bearing in mind the obligations of States to exercise due diligence to prevent trafficking in persons, to investigate and punish perpetrators of trafficking in persons and to protect and empower victims, and that not doing so violates and impairs or nullifies the enjoyment of the human rights and fundamental freedoms of the victims, 
	Seriously concerned that an increasing number of women and girls are being trafficked, including to developed countries, as well as within and between regions and States, and recognizing that trafficking in persons disproportionately affects women and girls and that men and boys are also victims of trafficking, including for sexual exploitation, 
	Recognizing that certain efforts against trafficking in persons lack the gender and age sensitivity needed to effectively differentiate between and respond to the risks faced by women and girls, who are particularly vulnerable to trafficking for the purposes of sexual exploitation, forced marriage, forced labour, services and other forms of exploitation, thus highlighting the need to incorporate a gender- and age-sensitive approach into all anti-trafficking efforts, 
	Recognizing also the need to address the impact of globalization on the particular problem of trafficking in women and children, in particular girls, 
	Recognizing further that pervasive gender inequality, poverty, unemployment, lack of socioeconomic opportunities, gender-based violence, discrimination and marginalization and persistent demand for trafficked women and girls are among the underlying causes that make women and girls vulnerable to trafficking, 
	Recognizing the need to adopt or strengthen legislative or other measures, such as educational, social or cultural measures, including through bilateral and multilateral cooperation, to discourage the demand, which fosters all forms of exploitation of persons, especially women and children, that leads to trafficking, 
	Recognizing also the heightened vulnerability to trafficking of women and girls in humanitarian crisis situations, including in conflict and post-conflict environments, natural disasters and other emergency environments, as well as the devastating consequences for women and girls in such circumstances, and noting in this regard the Migrants in Countries in Crisis initiative and the Agenda for the Protection of Cross-Border Displaced Persons in the Context of Disasters and Climate Change resulting from the Nansen Initiative, while recognizing that not all States are participating in them, 
	Recognizing further the need to reinforce efforts regarding the provision of relevant documents, such as birth registration documents, in order to lower the risk of being trafficked and to help to identify victims of trafficking in persons,
	Recognizing that, despite the progress made, challenges to preventing and combating trafficking in women and girls and to protecting and assisting the victims of human trafficking remain and that further efforts should be made to adopt and implement adequate legislation and other measures and to continue improving the collection of reliable data disaggregated by sex, age and other relevant factors and of statistics that would allow proper analysis of the nature, extent and risk factors of trafficking in women and girls, 
	Recognizing also that further work is required both to better understand the link between migration and trafficking in persons and to develop more effective responses to eliminate the risk of trafficking in the migration process in order to, inter alia, further efforts to protect women migrant workers from violence, discrimination, exploitation and abuse, 
	Concerned about the use of information and communications technologies, including the Internet, for purposes of recruiting for the exploitation of the prostitution of others, including for exploiting women and children and for child pornography, including sexual abuse material, paedophilia and any other forms of sexual exploitation and abuse of children, as well as for forced marriage and forced labour, while acknowledging the role that information and communications technologies play in reducing the risk of sexual abuse and exploitation, including by empowering women and children to report such abuses, 
	Concerned also about the increasing activities of transnational criminal organizations and others that profit from international trafficking in persons, especially women and children, without regard to dangerous and inhuman conditions and in flagrant violation of national laws and international standards, 
	Noting with concern that women and girls are also vulnerable to the risk of trafficking in persons for the purpose of organ removal, and in this regard taking note of Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice resolution 25/1 of 27 May 2016, entitled "Preventing and combating trafficking in human organs and trafficking in persons for the purpose of organ removal", adopted by the Commission at its twenty-fifth session,15  
	Recognizing that victims of trafficking are particularly exposed to racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and that women and girl victims are often subject to multiple and intersecting forms of discrimination and violence, including on the grounds of their gender, age, ethnicity, disability, culture and religion, as well as their origin, and that those forms of discrimination themselves may fuel trafficking in persons, 
	Noting with concern that some of the demand fostering sexual exploitation, exploitative labour and the illegal removal of organs is met by trafficking in persons, and recognizing that human trafficking is fuelled by high profits for traffickers and demand that fosters all forms of exploitation, 
	Acknowledging that women and girl victims of trafficking, owing to pervasive and persistent gender inequality, are further disadvantaged and marginalized by a general lack of information on or awareness and recognition of their human rights and by the stigmatization often associated with trafficking, as well as by the obstacles they meet in gaining access to accurate information and recourse mechanisms in cases of the violation of their rights, and that special measures are required for their protection and to increase their awareness, 
	Taking note of the Doha Declaration on Integrating Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice into the Wider United Nations Agenda to Address Social and Economic Challenges and to Promote the Rule of Law at the National and International Levels, and Public Participation, adopted in April 2015,16 which expresses the importance of implementing a victim-oriented approach to prevent and counter all forms of trafficking in persons for the purpose of exploitation, including the exploitation of the prostitution of others or other forms of sexual exploitation, forced labour or services, slavery or practices similar to slavery, servitude or the removal of organs, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, 
	Reaffirming the importance of bilateral, subregional, regional and international cooperation mechanisms and initiatives, including information exchanges on best practices, of Governments, intergovernmental and civil society organizations, the private sector and other relevant stakeholders, to address the problem of trafficking in persons, especially women and children, 
	Reaffirming also that global efforts, including international cooperation and technical assistance programmes, to eradicate trafficking in persons, especially women and children, demand the strong political commitment, coordinated and coherent efforts and active cooperation of all Governments of countries of origin, transit and destination, 
	Recognizing that policies and programmes for prevention, protection, rehabilitation, repatriation and reintegration should be developed through a gender- and age-sensitive, comprehensive and multidisciplinary approach, with concern for the security and privacy of the victims and respect for the full enjoyment of their human rights and with the involvement of all actors in countries of origin, transit and destination, 
	Convinced of the need to protect and assist all victims of trafficking, with full respect for the human rights and dignity of the victims, 
	1.	Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General,17 which provides information on measures by States and activities within the United Nations system to tackle trafficking in women and girls; 
	2.	Also takes note with appreciation of the information submitted by Member States and United Nations entities on measures and activities taken to combat trafficking in women and girls, and urges Member States and United Nations entities that have not done so to submit the requested information for inclusion in the report of the Secretary-General; 
	3.	Takes note of the reports of the Special Rapporteur of the Human Rights Council on trafficking in persons, especially women and children;18 
	4.	Urges Member States that have not yet done so to consider ratifying or acceding to, as a matter of priority, the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime1 and the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime,2 taking into consideration the central role of those instruments in the fight against trafficking in persons, and urges States parties to those instruments to implement them fully and effectively; 
	5.	Urges Member States to consider signing and ratifying, and States parties to implement, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women4 and the Optional Protocol thereto,5 the Convention on the Rights of the Child6 and the Optional Protocols thereto,19 and the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families,20 as well as the Forced Labour Convention, 1930 (No. 29)21 and the Protocol thereto, the Labour Inspection Convention, 1947 (No. 81),22 the Migration for Employment Convention (Revised), 1949 (No. 97),23 the Discrimination (Employment and Occupation) Convention, 1958 (No. 111),24 the Minimum Age Convention, 1973 (No. 138),25 the Migrant Workers (Supplementary Provisions) Convention, 1975 (No. 143),26 the Private Employment Agencies Convention, 1997 (No. 181),27 the Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention, 1999 (No. 182),28 and the Domestic Workers Convention, 2011 (No. 189), of the International Labour Organization; 
	6.	Urges Member States, the United Nations and other international, regional and subregional organizations, as well as civil society, including non-governmental organizations, the private sector and the media, to fully and effectively implement the relevant provisions of the United Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons29 and the activities outlined therein; 
	7.	Welcomes the efforts of Governments, United Nations bodies and agencies and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to prevent and address the particular problem of trafficking in women and girls, and encourages them to further enhance their efforts and cooperation, including by sharing their knowledge, technical expertise and best practices as widely as possible; 
	8.	Takes note with appreciation of the outcome document of the Regional Ministerial Conference on Human Trafficking and Smuggling in the Horn of Africa, known as the Khartoum Declaration, and calls for its effective implementation, including through technical cooperation and capacity-building, by the United Nations and the international community; 
	9.	Encourages the Commission on the Status of Women to consider the issue of trafficking in women and girls at its sixty-first session, within the framework of the priority theme for 2017, "Women's economic empowerment in the changing world of work"; 
	10.	Encourages Member States, the United Nations system and other stakeholders to observe the World Day against Trafficking in Persons, in the context of the need to raise awareness of the situation of victims of trafficking in persons and for the promotion and protection of their rights; 
	11.	Encourages the United Nations system to mainstream, as appropriate, the issue of trafficking in persons, especially women and girls, into its broader policies and programmes aimed at addressing economic and social development, human rights, the rule of law, good governance, education, health and natural disaster and post-conflict reconstruction; 
	12.	Welcomes the continued focus given by the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN-Women) to ending violence against women and to increasing women's access to economic opportunities, as well as its work on building effective partnerships for the empowerment of women, which will contribute to the efforts to combat trafficking in persons; 
	13.	Calls upon Governments to intensify their efforts to prevent and address, with a view to eliminating, the demand that fosters the trafficking of women and girls for all forms of exploitation and in this regard to put in place or to enhance preventive measures, including legislative and punitive measures to deter exploiters of trafficked persons, as well as ensure their accountability; 
	14.	Acknowledges the drafting of the basic principles on the right to an effective remedy for victims of trafficking in persons;30 
	15.	Calls upon Governments to strengthen measures aimed at advancing gender equality and empowering women and girls by, inter alia, enhancing their participation and leadership in society, including through education, economic empowerment and promoting an increase in the number of women assuming decision-making roles in both the public and private sectors, and to take further appropriate measures to address the increasing rate of homelessness of and inadequate housing for women in order to reduce their vulnerability to being trafficked; 
	16.	Also calls upon Governments to take appropriate preventive measures to address the underlying causes as well as risk factors that increase vulnerability to human trafficking, including poverty and gender inequality, particularly gender-based discrimination and violence, and the persistent demand that fosters all forms of trafficking and the goods and services produced as a result of trafficking in persons, as well as other factors that encourage the particular problem of trafficking in women and girls for exploitation, including in prostitution and other forms of commercialized sex, forced marriage, forced labour and organ removal, in order to prevent and eliminate such trafficking, including by strengthening existing legislation, with a view to providing better protection of the rights of women and girls and to punishing perpetrators, including public officials engaging in or facilitating human trafficking, through, as appropriate, criminal and civil measures; 
	17.	Calls upon Governments, the international community and all other organizations and entities that deal with conflict, post-conflict, disaster and other emergency situations to address the heightened vulnerability of women and girls to trafficking and exploitation and associated gender-based violence and to include the prevention of the trafficking of affected women and girls in all such national, regional and international initiatives; 
	18.	Urges Governments to devise, enforce and strengthen effective gender- and age-sensitive measures to combat and eliminate all forms of trafficking in women and girls, including for sexual and economic exploitation, as part of a comprehensive anti-trafficking strategy that integrates a human rights perspective, and to draw up, as appropriate, national action plans in this regard; 
	19.	Also urges Governments to ensure that the prevention of and responses to trafficking in persons continue to take into account the specific needs of women and girls and their participation in and contribution to all phases of preventing and responding to trafficking, especially in addressing specific forms of exploitation, such as sexual exploitation; 
	20.	Further urges Governments, in cooperation with intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, to support and allocate resources to strengthen preventive action, in particular education for women and men, as well as for girls and boys, on gender equality, self-respect and mutual respect, and campaigns, carried out in collaboration with civil society, to increase public awareness of the issue at the national and grass-roots levels, including awareness-raising campaigns against trafficking and modern slavery targeted at groups that are at increased risk of becoming victims of trafficking, as well as at those who may fuel the demand for the exploitation of trafficked persons and/or their labour; 
	21.	Reiterates the importance of continued coordination among, inter alia, the Special Rapporteurs of the Human Rights Council on trafficking in persons, especially women and children, on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography and on contemporary forms of slavery, including its causes and consequences, in order to avoid unnecessary duplication in their activities in fulfilment of their mandates; 
	22.	Urges Governments to strengthen measures to eliminate sex tourism demand, especially for children, through all possible preventive actions, including legislative measures and other relevant policies and programmes; 
	23.	Encourages the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, the World Tourism Organization and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization to promote their global campaign urging travellers to support the fight against trafficking in persons, especially women and girls; 
	24.	Urges Governments to develop age-appropriate educational and training programmes and policies aimed at preventing sex tourism and trafficking, giving special emphasis to the protection of young women and children; 
	25.	Encourages Member States to establish or strengthen national programmes and to engage in bilateral, subregional, regional and international cooperation, including by forging regional initiatives or plans of action,31 to address the problem of trafficking in persons through, inter alia, the enhancement of information-sharing, data disaggregated by sex and age, specific data collection and other technical capacities and mutual legal assistance, as well as the combating of corruption and laundering of proceeds derived from trafficking, including for purposes of commercial sexual exploitation, and to ensure, as appropriate, that such agreements and initiatives are particularly responsive to the problem of trafficking as it affects women and girls; 
	26.	Calls upon all Governments to criminalize all forms of trafficking in persons, recognizing its increasing occurrence for purposes of sexual exploitation, commercial sexual exploitation and abuse, sex tourism and forced labour, and to bring to justice and punish the offenders and intermediaries involved, including public officials involved with trafficking in persons, whether local or foreign, through the competent national authorities, either in the country of origin of the offender or in the country in which the abuse occurs, in accordance with the due process of law, as well as to penalize persons in authority found guilty of sexually assaulting victims of trafficking in their custody; 
	27.	Urges Governments, in accordance with their respective legal systems, to take all appropriate measures, including through policies and legislation, to ensure that victims of trafficking are protected from prosecution or punishment for acts those victims have been compelled to commit as a direct consequence of having been subjected to trafficking and that the victims do not suffer from revictimization as a result of actions taken by Government authorities, and encourages Governments to prevent, within their legal framework and in accordance with national policies, victims of trafficking in persons from being prosecuted or punished as a direct consequence of their illegal entry or residence; 
	28.	Invites Governments to consider establishing or strengthening a national mechanism, with the participation of civil society, as appropriate, including non-governmental organizations and women's organizations, to ensure a holistic and coordinated approach to anti-trafficking policies and measures, to encourage the exchange of information and to report on data, underlying causes, factors and trends in trafficking in persons, especially women and girls, and to include data on victims of trafficking disaggregated by sex, age and other relevant factors; 
	29.	Invites the Special Rapporteur on trafficking in persons, especially women and children, to continue to cooperate with international, regional and national mechanisms to combat trafficking in persons, in consultation with Governments, relevant treaty bodies, special procedures, the specialized agencies, intergovernmental organizations, civil society, including non-governmental organizations, national human rights institutions and other sources, including victims of trafficking or their representatives, as appropriate; 
	30.	Encourages Governments and relevant United Nations bodies, from within existing resources, to take appropriate measures to raise public awareness of the issue of trafficking in persons, particularly women and girls, including the factors that make women and girls vulnerable to trafficking, to discourage, with a view to eliminating, the demand that fosters all forms of exploitation, including sexual exploitation and forced labour, to publicize the laws, regulations and penalties relating to this issue and to emphasize that trafficking is a serious crime; 
	31.	Calls upon concerned Governments to allocate resources, as appropriate, to provide access to appropriate programmes for the physical, psychological and social recovery of victims of trafficking, including sexual and reproductive health-care services that include affordable treatment, care and support services for HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted infections, free of stigma and discrimination, as well as comprehensive information and voluntary counselling, and to take measures to cooperate with intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to provide for the social, medical and psychological care of the victims in ways that protect their privacy and identity; 
	32.	Encourages Governments, in cooperation with intergovernmental and civil society organizations, to undertake or strengthen campaigns aimed at clarifying opportunities, limitations, rights and responsibilities with respect to migration, as well as information on the risks of irregular migration and the ways and means used by traffickers, to enable women to make informed decisions and to prevent them from becoming victims of trafficking; 
	33.	Strongly urges Governments to ensure coherence between the laws on and measures responding to migration, labour and trafficking to protect the human rights of migrant women and girls throughout the migration and employment process as well as the repatriation process, when applicable, and to provide effective protection against trafficking; 
	34.	Invites States, together with relevant United Nations entities, to undertake further research into the links between migration and trafficking to guide the development of age- and gender-sensitive policies and programmes that address the vulnerability of women and girl migrants; 
	35.	Encourages Governments to review and strengthen, as appropriate, the enforcement of relevant labour and other laws within their territories or jurisdictions that are aimed at, or have the effect of, requiring business enterprises, including recruitment agencies, to prevent and combat human trafficking in supply chains, and to periodically assess the adequacy of such laws and address any gaps; 
	36.	Invites the business sector to consider the adoption of ethical codes of conduct to ensure decent work and to prevent any form of exploitative practices that foster trafficking; 
	37.	Encourages Governments to intensify collaboration with non-governmental organizations to develop and implement gender- and age-sensitive programmes for effective counselling, training and reintegration into society of victims of trafficking and programmes that provide shelter and helplines to victims or potential victims in ways that protect their privacy and identity; 
	38.	Urges Governments to provide or strengthen training for, and to raise awareness among, law enforcement, judicial, immigration and other relevant officials on the prevention and combating of trafficking in persons, including the sexual exploitation of women and girls, and in this regard calls upon Governments to ensure that the treatment of victims of trafficking, especially by law enforcement officials, immigration officers, consular officials, social workers, health service providers and other first response officials, is conducted with full respect for the human rights of those victims and with gender and age sensitivity and observes the principles of non-discrimination, including the prohibition of racial discrimination; 
	39.	Invites Member States to provide training for law enforcement and border control officials, as well as medical personnel, in identifying potential cases of trafficking in persons for the purpose of organ removal; 
	40.	Invites Governments to take steps to ensure that criminal justice procedures and witness protection programmes are sensitive to the particular situation of trafficked women and girls, and that they are supported and assisted, as appropriate, in making complaints to the police or other authorities, without fear and with due regard for the protection of their privacy and their identity, and are available, when required, to the criminal justice system, and to ensure that during this time they have access to gender- and age-sensitive protection and, as appropriate, social, medical, financial and legal assistance, including the possibility of obtaining compensation for damages suffered; 
	41.	Also invites Governments to intensify efforts aimed at the speedy disposition of cases of trafficking in persons and, in cooperation with, inter alia, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, to devise, enforce and strengthen systems and mechanisms for combating trafficking in persons; 
	42.	Further invites Governments to encourage media providers, including Internet service providers, to adopt or strengthen self-regulatory measures to promote the responsible use of media, particularly the Internet, with a view to eliminating the exploitation of women and children, in particular girls, which could foster trafficking; 
	43.	Invites the business sector, in particular the tourism, travel and telecommunications industries, relevant recruitment agencies and mass media organizations, to cooperate with Governments in eliminating trafficking in women and children, in particular girls, including through the dissemination by the media of information regarding the dangers of trafficking, the means used by traffickers, the rights of trafficked persons and the services available to victims of trafficking; 
	44.	Stresses the need for the systematic collection of data disaggregated by sex, age and other relevant factors and comprehensive studies at both the national and the international levels, and in this regard takes note of the publication of the Global Report on Trafficking in Persons, prepared by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, and the development of common methodologies and internationally defined indicators to make it possible to develop relevant and comparable figures, and encourages Governments to enhance information-sharing and data-collection capacity as a way of promoting cooperation to combat the trafficking problem; 
	45.	Invites Governments, United Nations bodies, agencies and special mechanisms, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations and the private sector to undertake collaborative and joint research and studies on trafficking in women and girls that can serve as a basis for policy formulation or change; 
	46.	Invites Governments, with the support of the United Nations, when necessary, and other intergovernmental organizations, taking into account best practices, to formulate training manuals and other informational materials and to provide training for law enforcement, judicial and other relevant officials and medical and support personnel, with a view to sensitizing them to the special needs of women and girl victims; 
	47.	Calls upon Governments, and encourages relevant intergovernmental bodies and international organizations, to ensure that military, peacekeeping and humanitarian personnel deployed in conflict, post-conflict and other emergency situations are provided with training on conduct that does not promote, facilitate or exploit trafficking in women and girls, including for sexual exploitation, and to raise the awareness of such personnel about the potential risks to victims of conflict and other emergency situations, including natural disasters, of being trafficked; 
	48.	Invites States parties to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the International Covenants on Human Rights32 to include information and disaggregated statistics on trafficking in women and girls as part of their national reports to their respective committees and to work towards developing a common methodology and statistics to obtain comparable data; 
	49.	Invites States to continue to contribute to the United Nations Voluntary Trust Fund on Contemporary Forms of Slavery and to the United Nations Voluntary Trust Fund for Victims of Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children; 
	50.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its seventy-third session a report that compiles information on successful interventions and strategies, as well as the gaps, in addressing the gender dimensions of the problem of trafficking in persons and provides recommendations on the strengthening of human rights-based, gender- and age-sensitive approaches within comprehensive and balanced efforts to address trafficking in persons. 

65th plenary meeting
19 December 2016

1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2225, No. 39574. 
2 Ibid., vol. 2237, No. 39574. 
3 Ibid., vol. 2241, No. 39574. 
4 Ibid., vol. 1249, No. 20378. 
5 Ibid., vol. 2131, No. 20378. 
6 Ibid., vol. 1577, No. 27531. 
7 Ibid., vol. 2171, No. 27531. 
8 Ibid., vol. 96, No. 1342. 
9 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II. 
10 Resolution 70/1. 
11 Resolution 71/1. 
12 Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2016, Supplement No. 7 (E/2016/27), chap. I, sect. A. 
13 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 53 (A/69/53), chap. V, sect. A, resolution 26/8. 
14 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2187, No. 38544. 
15 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2016, Supplement No. 10 (E/2016/30), chap. I, sect. D. 
16 Resolution 70/174, annex. 
17 A/71/223. 
18 A/71/303 and A/HRC/32/41 and Corr.1.
19 United Nations, Treaty Series, vols. 2171 and 2173, No. 27531; and resolution 66/138, annex. 
20 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2220, No. 39481. 
21 Ibid., vol. 39, No. 612. 
22 Ibid., vol. 54, No. 792. 
23 Ibid., vol. 120, No. 1616. 
24 Ibid., vol. 362, No. 5181. 
25 Ibid., vol. 1015, No. 14862. 
26 Ibid., vol. 1120, No. 17426. 
27 Ibid., vol. 2115, No. 36794. 
28 Ibid., vol. 2133, No. 37245. 
29 Resolution 64/293. 
30 A/69/269, annex. 
31 Such as the Bali Process on People Smuggling, Trafficking in Persons and Related Transnational Crime, the Coordinated Mekong Ministerial Initiative against Trafficking, the Action Plan for the Asia-Pacific region of the Asian Regional Initiative against Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children (see A/C.3/55/3, annex), the initiatives of the European Union on a comprehensive European policy and programmes on trafficking in human beings, as expressed most recently in the European Union plan on best practices, standards and procedures for combating and preventing trafficking in human beings, adopted in December 2005, the activities of the Council of Europe and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation Convention on Preventing and Combating Trafficking in Women and Children for Prostitution, the Organization of American States Meeting of National Authorities on Trafficking in Persons, the Agreement on the Cooperation of the Commonwealth of Independent States in Combating Trafficking in Persons, Human Organs and Tissues, the Inter-American Programme for the Prevention and Eradication of Commercial Sexual Exploitation and Smuggling of and Trafficking in Children, and the activities of the International Labour Organization and the International Organization for Migration in this field. 
32 Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex. 
[Start1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1645306E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/71/167<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

13
    

13

United NationsA/RES/71/167General AssemblyDistr.: General
 2 February 2017Seventy-first session
Agenda item 27 

16-21874 (E)
*1621874*Please recycle 

A/RES/71/167Trafficking in women and girls

Trafficking in women and girlsA/RES/71/167

2/2

13/13

