[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 19 December 2008
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/63/414/Add.1)]
63/212.	Implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the outcomes of the World Summit on Sustainable Development 


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 55/199 of 20 December 2000, 56/226 of 24 December 2001, 57/253 of 20 December 2002, 57/270 A and B of 20 December 2002 and 23 June 2003, respectively, 61/195 of 20 December 2006 and 62/189 of 19 December 2007, and all other previous resolutions on the implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the outcomes of the World Summit on Sustainable Development,
	Recalling also the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development,1 Agenda 21,2 the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21,3 the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development4 and the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation"),5 as well as the Monterrey Consensus of the International Conference on Financing for Development,6
	Reaffirming the commitment to implement Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21, the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation, including the time-bound goals and targets, and the other internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals,
	Recalling the 2005 World Summit Outcome,7 
	Reaffirming the decisions taken at the eleventh session of the Commission on Sustainable Development,8 
	Reiterating that sustainable development in its economic, social and environmental aspects is a key element of the overarching framework for United Nations activities, and reaffirming the continuing need to ensure a balance among economic development, social development and environmental protection as interdependent and mutually reinforcing pillars of sustainable development, 
	Noting that challenges remain in achieving the goals of the three pillars of sustainable development, particularly in the context of the current global crises, 
	Taking note of the proposal to convene a world summit on sustainable development in 2012, 
	Bearing in mind the need for further consultations on this matter, in the light of the variety of views expressed by Member States, recognizing that the preparatory process, content, modalities and timing for such a possible high-level event on sustainable development would need to be determined taking into account the work of the Commission, particularly as established in its multi-year programme of work,9 with a view to avoiding duplication of work, 
	Recalling the adoption of the Commission multi-year programme of work designed to contribute to advancing the implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation at all levels,
	Reaffirming that eradicating poverty, changing unsustainable patterns of production and consumption and protecting and managing the natural resource base of economic and social development are overarching objectives of and essential requirements for sustainable development, 
	Recognizing that good governance within each country and at the international level is essential for sustainable development, 
	Recalling that the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation designated the Commission to serve as the focal point for discussion on partnerships that promote sustainable development and contribute to the implementation of intergovernmental commitments in Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation, 
	Recognizing that eradicating poverty is the greatest global challenge facing the world today and an indispensable requirement for sustainable development, in particular for developing countries, and that although each country has the primary responsibility for its own sustainable development and poverty eradication and the role of national policies and development strategies cannot be overemphasized, concerted and concrete measures are required at all levels to enable developing countries to achieve their sustainable development goals as related to the internationally agreed poverty-related targets and goals, including those contained in Agenda 21, the relevant outcomes of other United Nations conferences and the United Nations Millennium Declaration,10 
	Recalling that the Economic and Social Council should increase its role in overseeing system-wide coordination and the balanced integration of economic, social and environmental aspects of United Nations policies and programmes aimed at promoting sustainable development, and reaffirming that the Commission should continue to be the high-level commission on sustainable development within the United Nations system and serve as a forum for consideration of issues related to integration of the three dimensions of sustainable development, 
	Recalling also that agriculture, rural development, land, drought and desertification are interlinked and should be addressed in an integrated manner, taking into account economic, social and environmental dimensions of sustainable development, related sectoral policies and cross-cutting issues including means of implementation, as identified at the eleventh session of the Commission, 
	Recognizing the problems and constraints that African countries are facing in the areas of agriculture, rural development, land, drought and desertification, and emphasizing that those problems and constraints should be adequately addressed during the seventeenth session of the Commission, which will be a policy session, 
	Recalling the decision of the Commission at its eleventh session,11 endorsed by the Economic and Social Council in its resolution 2003/61 of 25 July 2003, that the Commission, at its policy sessions, to be held in April/May of the second year of the cycle of the Commission's work programme, would take policy decisions on practical measures and options to expedite implementation in the selected thematic cluster of issues, taking account of the discussions of the Intergovernmental Preparatory Meeting, the reports of the Secretary-General and other relevant inputs, 
	Recalling also the decision of the Commission at its eleventh session12 that the discussions of the Intergovernmental Preparatory Meeting would be based on the outcome of the review session and reports of the Secretary-General, as well as other relevant inputs, and that, on the basis of those discussions, the Chair would prepare a draft negotiating document for consideration at the policy session, 
	Recognizing the importance of the Intergovernmental Preparatory Meeting in respect of discussing policy options and possible actions to address the constraints and obstacles in the process of implementation identified during the review year, 
	Noting with satisfaction that the Commission at its sixteenth session undertook an in-depth evaluation of progress in implementing Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation, focusing on the thematic cluster of issues on agriculture, rural development, land, drought, desertification and Africa, taking into account the interlinkages as well as addressing the cross-cutting issues, and identified best practices, constraints and obstacles in the process of implementation,13 
	Noting with satisfaction also the review of the implementation of the Commission's decisions on water, held by the Commission at its sixteenth session,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;14 
	2.	Reiterates that sustainable development is a key element of the overarching framework for United Nations activities, in particular for achieving the internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals, and those contained in the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation;5 
	3.	Calls upon Governments, all relevant international and regional organizations, the Economic and Social Council, the United Nations funds and programmes, the regional commissions and the specialized agencies, the international financial institutions, the Global Environment Facility and other intergovernmental organizations, in accordance with their respective mandates, as well as major groups, to take action to ensure the effective implementation of and follow-up to the commitments, programmes and time-bound targets adopted at the World Summit on Sustainable Development, and encourages them to report on concrete progress in that regard; 
	4.	Calls for the effective implementation of the commitments, programmes and time-bound targets adopted at the World Summit on Sustainable Development and for the fulfilment of the provisions relating to the means of implementation, as contained in the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation; 
	5.	Invites Member States to express their views on the possibility of convening a high-level event on sustainable development, and requests the Secretary-General, in his report on the implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the outcomes of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, to include the views expressed, and decides to consider this matter further at the sixty-fourth session of the General Assembly;
	6.	Reiterates that the Commission on Sustainable Development is the high-level body responsible for sustainable development within the United Nations system and serves as a forum for the consideration of issues related to the integration of the three dimensions of sustainable development; 
	7.	Emphasizes the importance of a consensus outcome and action-oriented policy sessions; 
	8.	Encourages Governments to participate at the appropriate level with representatives, including ministers, from the relevant departments and organizations working in the areas of agriculture, rural development, land, drought, desertification and Africa, as well as finance, in the seventeenth session of the Commission and its Intergovernmental Preparatory Meeting; 
	9.	Recalls the decision of the Commission at its eleventh session that activities during Commission meetings should provide for the balanced involvement of participants from all regions, as well as for gender balance;15 
	10.	Invites donor countries to consider supporting the participation of representatives from the developing countries in the seventeenth session of the Commission and its Intergovernmental Preparatory Meeting, inter alia, through contributions to the Commission's trust fund; 
	11.	Reaffirms the objective of strengthening the implementation of Agenda 21,2 including through the mobilization of financial and technological resources, as well as capacity-building programmes, in particular for developing countries; 
	12.	Invites donor Governments and international financial institutions to support the efforts of developing countries to overcome barriers and constraints identified during the review year in the thematic cluster of issues of agriculture, rural development, land, drought, desertification and Africa; 
	13.	Reaffirms the objective of enhancing the participation and effective involvement of civil society and other relevant stakeholders, as well as promoting transparency and broad public participation, in the implementation of Agenda 21; 
	14.	Requests the secretariat of the Commission to coordinate the participation of the relevant major groups in the thematic discussions at the seventeenth session of the Commission and its Intergovernmental Preparatory Meeting and the reporting on the fulfilment of corporate accountability and responsibility with respect to the thematic cluster of issues, in accordance with the provisions of the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation; 
	15.	Reaffirms the need to promote corporate responsibility and accountability as envisaged by the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation;
	16.	Also reaffirms the need to promote the development of microenterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises, including by means of training, education and skill enhancement, with a special focus on agro-industry as a provider of livelihoods for rural communities; 
	17.	Requests the secretariat of the Commission to make arrangements to facilitate the balanced representation of major groups from developed and developing countries in the sessions of the Commission, and in this regard invites donor countries to consider supporting the participation of major groups from developing countries, inter alia, through contributions to the Commission's trust fund; 
	18.	Reiterates the invitation to the relevant specialized agencies, including the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and the International Fund for Agricultural Development, United Nations funds and programmes, the Global Environment Facility and international and regional financial and trade institutions, as well as the secretariat of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa,16 and other relevant bodies, to actively participate, within their mandates, in the work of the Commission and its Intergovernmental Preparatory Meeting at its seventeenth session; 
	19.	Encourages Governments and organizations at all levels, as well as major groups, to undertake results-oriented initiatives and activities to support the work of the Commission and to promote and facilitate the implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 213 and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation, including through voluntary multi-stakeholder partnership initiatives; 
	20.	Requests the Secretary-General, in reporting to the Commission at its seventeenth session, on the basis of appropriate inputs from all levels, to submit thematic reports on each of the six issues contained in the thematic cluster of issues on agriculture, rural development, land, drought, desertification and Africa, taking into account their interlinkages, while addressing the cross-cutting issues, including means of implementation identified by the Commission at its eleventh session, and also takes into account the relevant provisions of paragraphs 10, 14 and 15 of draft resolution I of the eleventh session of the Commission;8 
	21.	Underlines the importance of setting aside adequate time for all envisaged activities in the policy session, including for negotiations on policy options and possible actions, at the seventeenth session of the Commission, and in this regard notes the importance of having all required documents, including the Chair's draft negotiating document, made available for consideration prior to the beginning of the session; 
	22.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-fourth session the sub-item entitled "Implementation of Agenda 21, the Programme for the Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the outcomes of the World Summit on Sustainable Development", and requests the Secretary-General, at that session, to submit a report on the implementation of the present resolution. 

72nd plenary meeting
19 December 2008
1 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992, vol. I, Resolutions Adopted by the Conference (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum), resolution 1, annex I.
2 Ibid., annex II.
3 Resolution S-19/2, annex.
4 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
5 Ibid., resolution 2, annex.
6 Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico, 18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
7 See resolution 60/1.
8 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2003, Supplement No. 9 (E/2003/29), chap. I.
9 Ibid., sect. A, draft resolution I, annex.
10 See resolution 55/2.
11 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2003, Supplement No. 9 (E/2003/29), chap. I, sect. A, draft resolution I, para. 2 (h).
12 Ibid., para. 2 (g).
13 Ibid., 2008, Supplement No. 9 (E/2008/29), chap. II.
14 A/63/304.
15 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2003, Supplement No. 9 (E/2003/29), chap. I, sect. A, draft resolution I, para. 2 (j).
16 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1954, No. 33480.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0848351E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/63/212<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

2
    

2

United NationsA/RES/63/212General AssemblyDistr.: General
18 February 2009Sixty-third session
Agenda item 49 (a)

08-48351

A/RES/63/212

A/RES/63/212

2

3

