[COMMENT1]UNITED		A
NATIONS




         General Assembly

                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/54/212
                                                                          1 February 2000





Fifty-fourth session
Agenda item 99 (e)



	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Second Committee (A/54/587/Add.5)]


54/212.	International migration and development

    The General Assembly,

    Recalling the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development adopted at Cairo,1 in particular chapter X on international migration, and the key actions for the further implementation of the Programme of Action, set out in the annex to General Assembly resolution S-21/2 of 2 July 1999, in particular section II.C on international migration, as well as the relevant provisions contained in the Copenhagen Declaration on Social Development2 and the Programme of Action of the World Summit for Social Development3 and in the Platform for Action4 adopted by the Fourth World Conference on Women,


    Recalling also its resolutions 49/127 of 19  December 1994, 50/123 of 20 December 1995 and 52/189 of 18 December 1997 on international migration and development, as well as Economic and Social Council decision 1995/313 of 27 July 1995,

    Reaffirming the continuing validity of the principles set forth in the international instruments regarding the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, in particular the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,5 the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,6 the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women7 and the Convention on the Rights of the Child,8

    Recalling that the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council should carry out their respective responsibilities as entrusted to them in the Charter of the United Nations, as well as by the relevant United Nations conferences of the 1990s, in the formulation of policies and the provision of guidance to and coordination of United Nations activities in the field of population and development, including activities on international migration,

    Noting the need for the relevant United Nations organizations and other international organizations to enhance their technical support to developing countries to ensure that migration contributes to development,

    Recognizing the diversity of views expressed by the respondents to the survey regarding the question of convening a United Nations conference on international migration, its scope, form and agenda,9 which represented 39 per cent of the full United Nations membership, and that forty-five respondents were in favour of convening a conference, five were partially in favour and twenty-six were against,

    Noting in particular the need for more migration data, a coherent theory to explain international migration and a better understanding of the complex interrelationships between migration and development,

    Noting the critical role of the existing forums within the United Nations system in addressing the issues of international migration and development, including through the Commission on Population and Development, the Commission on Human Rights, the Committee for Development Policy, the International Labour Organization and other relevant key organizations,


    Noting with appreciation the numerous meetings and conferences convened relating to migration and development,10 in particular in the context of regional cooperation,

    Noting the establishment of the International Migration Policy Programme in May 1998 by the United Nations Institute for Training and Research, the International Organization for Migration and the United Nations Population Fund, to be implemented in partnership with the International Labour Office, the Office  of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and other relevant international and regional institutions, with a view to strengthening the capacity of Governments in different regions to manage migration flows at national and regional levels and thus to foster cooperation among States towards orderly migration,

    Aware that, among other factors, the process of globalization and liberalization, including the widening economic and social gap between and among many countries and the marginalization of some countries in the global economy, has contributed to large flows of peoples between and among countries and to the intensification of the complex phenomenon of international migration,

    Aware also that, in spite of the existence of an already established body of principles, there is a need to make further efforts to ensure that the human rights and dignity of all migrants and their families are respected and protected and that it is desirable to improve the situation of all documented migrants and their families,

    Recognizing the importance, from an analytical and operational point of view, of identifying the existing linkages among the social, economic, political and cultural factors related to international migration and development and of the need for comprehensive, coherent and effective policies on international migration based on the spirit of genuine partnership and common understanding,

    1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;11


    2.	Urges Member States and the United Nations system to strengthen international cooperation in the area of international migration and development in order to address the root causes of migration, especially those related to poverty, and to maximize the benefits of international migration to those concerned;

    3.	Encourages, where relevant, interregional, regional and subregional mechanisms to continue to address the question of migration and development;

    4.	Calls upon all relevant bodies, agencies, funds and programmes of the United Nations system and other relevant intergovernmental, regional and subregional organizations, within their continuing mandated activities, to continue to address the issue of international migration and development and to provide appropriate support for interregional, regional and subregional processes and activities on international migration and development;

    5.	Also calls upon the international community to seek to make the option of remaining in one?s country viable for all people, to which end efforts to achieve sustainable economic and social development, ensuring a better economic balance between developed and developing countries, should be strengthened;

    6.	Requests the Secretary-General, whenever feasible, to solicit more views from Member States, particularly those that have not responded to the survey requested in pursuance of resolution 52/189, as well as from the International Labour Organization, the International Organization for Migration and other relevant organizations, both within and outside the United Nations system, on the report of the Secretary-General submitted to the General Assembly at its fifty-second session,12 bearing in mind various regional processes, and to recommend ways and means to address the problems related to migration and development;

    7.	Also requests the Secretary-General to initiate appropriate action in consultation with regional commissions in order to ensure the carrying out of interregional activities, with the contribution of the relevant actors on issues relating to international migration and development, taking into account, inter alia, the report of the Secretary-General,11 and encourages the United Nations bodies and other appropriate international organizations to provide support to such activities;

    8.	Further requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session a report that will, inter alia, summarize the lessons learned, as well as best practices on migration management and policies, from the various activities relating to international migration and development that have been carried out at the regional and interregional levels, and recommend for the consideration of the Assembly policy actions that could be pursued at the international level, taking into account, inter alia, the following:

    (a)	The report of the Committee for Development Policy13 on its examination of the issue of migration and development;

    (b)	The work of the relevant bodies, agencies, funds and programmes of the United Nations system and other international organizations in the field of international migration and development;


    (c)	The possible mechanisms within the United Nations system to examine international migration and development in a comprehensive and integrated manner;

    (d)	The need to provide, in consultation with relevant United Nations bodies, an analysis of data relating to migration within and between the various regions;

    9.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fifty-sixth session the sub-item entitled ?International migration and development, including the question of the convening of a United Nations conference on international migration and development to address migration issues?.

	87th plenary meeting
	22 December 1999

1 Report of the International Conference on Population and Development, Cairo, 5-13 September 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.95.XIII.18), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
2 Report of the World Summit for Social Development, Copenhagen, 6-12 March 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.8), chap. I, resolution 1, annex I.
3 Ibid., annex II.
4 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
5 Resolution 217 A (III).
6 Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.
7 Resolution 34/180, annex.
8 Resolution 44/25, annex.
9 See A/54/207.
10 Including the International Symposium: Towards Regional Cooperation in Irregular/Undocumented Migration, held at Bangkok from 21 to 23 April 1999, which adopted the Bangkok Declaration on Irregular Migration (see A/C.2/54/2, annex); the Regional Conference to Address the Problems of Refugees, Displaced Persons, Other Forms of Involuntary Displacement and Returnees in the Countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States and Relevant Neighbouring States, held at Geneva on 30 and 31 May 1996; the Regional Conference on Migration in North and Central America; the migration capacity-building and regional cooperation meetings organized by the International Migration Policy Programme with senior government officials from Eastern and Central Europe at Budapest in November 1998, senior government officials from southern Africa at Pretoria in April 1999 and Governments from Asia and the Pacific at Bangkok in November 1999; the Mediterranean Conference on Population, Migration and Development, held at Palma de Mallorca from 15 to 17 October 1998; and the Technical Symposium on International Migration and Development of the Administrative Committee on Coordination Task Force on Basic Social Services for All, held at The Hague from 29 June to 3 July 1998.
11 A/54/207. The report includes information on the question of the convening of a United Nations conference on international migration and development to address migration issues.
12 A/52/314.
13 See A/54/207, paras. 42-44.
[COMMENT1]
<<ODS JOB NO>>N0026259E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/54/212<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------


00 26259	/...


00 26259	/...

A/RES/54/212
Page 4




	A/RES/54/212
	Page 5





	/...


	/...





