[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 18 December 2014
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/69/484)]
69/156.	Child, early and forced marriage

	The General Assembly,
	Reaffirming its resolution 68/148 of 18 December 2013 on child, early and forced marriage,
	Recalling its resolutions 66/140 of 19 December 2011 and 68/146 of 18 December 2013 on the girl child and 67/144 of 20 December 2012 on the intensification of efforts to eliminate all forms of violence against women, as well as Human Rights Council resolution 24/23 of 27 September 2013, entitled "Strengthening efforts to prevent and eliminate child, early and forced marriage: challenges, achievements, best practices and implementation gaps",1 and all other previous resolutions relating to child, early and forced marriage,
	Guided by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,2 the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights3 and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,3 as well as other relevant human rights instruments, including the Convention on the Rights of the Child4 and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,5 together with the relevant Optional Protocols thereto,6
	Reaffirming the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action,7 as well as the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development,8 the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action9 and the outcome documents of their review conferences,
	Recalling the agreed conclusions adopted by the Commission on the Status of Women at its fifty-seventh10 and fifty-eighth11 sessions,
	Taking note with appreciation of the report of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights of 2 April 2014 on preventing and eliminating child, early and forced marriage12 and its summary report of 18 July 2014 on the panel discussion on preventing and eliminating child, early and forced marriage,13 and noting the summary report on the panel discussion held by the General Assembly on 5 September 2014,
	Recognizing that child, early and forced marriage is a harmful practice that violates, abuses and impairs human rights and is linked to and perpetuates other harmful practices and human rights violations and that such violations have a disproportionately negative impact on women and girls, and underscoring the human rights obligations and commitments of States to promote and protect the human rights and fundamental freedoms of women and girls and to prevent and eliminate the practice of child, early and forced marriage,
	Deeply concerned about the continued prevalence of child, early and forced marriage worldwide, including the fact that approximately 15 million girls are married every year before they reach 18 years of age and that more than 700 million women and girls alive today were married before their eighteenth birthday,
	Noting with concern that the continued prevalence of child, early and forced marriage has had a negative impact on the achievement and the overarching aims of Millennium Development Goals 1 to 6, including in the areas of gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls, poverty reduction, education, maternal and child mortality and health, including sexual and reproductive health, and recognizing that child, early and forced marriage continues to impair sustainable development, inclusive economic growth and social cohesion,
	Noting with concern also that poverty and insecurity are among the root causes of child, early and forced marriage and that child, early and forced marriage remains common in rural areas and among the poorest communities, and recognizing that the immediate alleviation and eventual eradication of extreme poverty must remain a high priority for the international community,
	Recognizing that child, early and forced marriage is itself a barrier to development and helps to perpetuate the cycle of poverty and that the risk of child, early and forced marriage is also exacerbated in conflict and humanitarian crisis situations,
	Recognizing also that child, early and forced marriage is inherently linked to deep-rooted gender inequalities, norms and stereotypes and to harmful practices, perceptions and customs that are obstacles to the full enjoyment of human rights and that the persistence of child, early and forced marriage places children, in particular the girl child, at risk of being exposed to and encountering various forms of discrimination and violence throughout their lives,
	Recognizing further that child, early and forced marriage undermines women's and girls' autonomy and decision-making in all aspects of their lives and continues to be an impediment to improvements in the education and the economic and social status of women and girls in all parts of the world and that the empowerment of and investment in women and girls is critical for economic growth, including the eradication of poverty, as well as the meaningful participation of girls in all decisions that affect them,
	Noting with concern that child, early and forced marriage disproportionally affects girls who have received little or no formal education and is itself a significant obstacle to educational opportunities for girls and young women, in particular girls who are forced to drop out of school owing to marriage and/or childbirth, and recognizing that educational opportunities are directly related to women's and girls' empowerment, employment and economic opportunities and to their active participation in economic, social and cultural development, governance and decision-making,
	Recognizing that child, early and forced marriage constitutes a serious threat to multiple aspects of the physical and psychological health of women and girls, including but not limited to their sexual and reproductive health, significantly increasing the risk of early, frequent and unintended pregnancy, maternal and newborn mortality and morbidity, obstetric fistula and sexually transmitted infections, including HIV/AIDS, as well as increasing vulnerability to all forms of violence, and that every girl and woman at risk of or affected by these practices must have equal access to quality services such as education, counselling, shelter and other social services, psychological, sexual and reproductive health-care services and medical care,
	1.	Urges all States to enact, enforce and uphold laws and policies aimed at preventing and ending child, early and forced marriage and protecting those at risk and to ensure that marriage is entered into only with the informed, free and full consent of the intending spouses;
	2.	Calls upon States, with the participation of relevant stakeholders, including girls, religious and community leaders, civil society, women's and human rights groups, men and boys and youth organizations, to develop and implement holistic, comprehensive and coordinated responses and strategies to eliminate child, early and forced marriage and to support already married girls, adolescents and women, including through the strengthening of child protection systems, protection mechanisms such as safe shelters, access to justice and the sharing of best practices across borders;
	3.	Calls upon States and the international community to create an environment in which the well-being of women and girls is ensured by, inter alia, cooperating, supporting and participating in efforts for the eradication of extreme poverty, and reaffirms that investment in women and girls and the protection of their rights are among the most effective ways to end the practice of child, early and forced marriage;
	4.	Calls upon States to promote and protect the right of women and girls to education through enhanced emphasis on quality education, including catch-up and literacy education for those who have not received formal education, while recognizing that education is one of the most effective ways to prevent and end child, early and forced marriage and to help married women and girls to make more informed choices about their lives;
	5.	Urges Governments to promote and protect the human rights of all women, including their right to have control over and decide freely and responsibly on matters related to their sexuality, including sexual and reproductive health, free of coercion, discrimination and violence, and to adopt and accelerate the implementation of laws, policies and programmes that protect and enable the enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms, including reproductive rights, in accordance with the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development,8 the Beijing Platform for Action14 and the outcome documents of their review conferences;
	6.	Encourages relevant United Nations entities and agencies to continue to collaborate with and support Member States in developing and implementing strategies and policies at the national, regional and international levels to prevent and eliminate child, early and forced marriage, as well as to support already married girls, adolescents and women;
	7.	Recalls the inclusion of a target on eliminating all harmful practices, such as child, early and forced marriage, in the outcome document of the Open Working Group on Sustainable Development Goals,15 recognizes child, early and forced marriage as a barrier to development and the full realization of women's and girls' human rights, and recognizes the need to give due consideration to the inclusion of the target in the post-2015 development agenda in order to help to ensure progress towards the elimination of child, early and forced marriage;
	8.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit a comprehensive report to the General Assembly, before the end of its seventieth session, on progress towards ending child, early and forced marriage worldwide since the issuance of the report of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights of 2 April 2014,12 with particular emphasis on high-prevalence countries, best practices for programmes aimed at ending the practice and supporting already married women and girls, gaps in research and implementation and legal reforms and policies related to this matter, using information provided by Member States, United Nations bodies, agencies, funds and programmes, civil society and other relevant stakeholders;
	9.	Decides to consider the issue of child, early and forced marriage at its seventy-first session under the item entitled "Promotion and protection of the rights of children", taking into account the multifaceted and worldwide nature of the issue of child, early and forced marriage.

73rd plenary meeting
18 December 2014

1 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 53A (A/68/53/Add.1), chap. III.
2 Resolution 217 A (III).
3 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
4 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1577, No. 27531.
5 Ibid., vol. 1249, No. 20378.
6 Ibid., vols. 2171 and 2173, No. 27531, and resolution 66/138, annex; and United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2131, No. 20378.
7 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
8 Report of the International Conference on Population and Development, Cairo, 5-13 September 1994 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.95.XIII.18), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
9 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.
10 Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 2013, Supplement No. 7 (E/2013/27), chap. I, sect. A.
11 Ibid., 2014, Supplement No. 7 (E/2014/27), chap. I, sect. A.
12 A/HRC/26/22 and Corr.1.
13 A/HRC/27/34.
14 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
15 See A/68/970 and Corr.1.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1470586E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/69/156<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/69/156General AssemblyDistr.: General
22 January 2015Sixty-ninth session
Agenda item 64 

14-67600 (E)
*1467600*Please recycle 

A/RES/69/156Child, early and forced marriage

Child, early and forced marriageA/RES/69/156

4/4

3/4

