[COMMENT1]UNITED									A
NATIONS



             General Assembly


                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/53/123
                                                                          10 February 1999

                                                                          



Fifty-third session
Agenda item 105


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/53/620)]


53/123.	Follow-up to the Regional Conference to Address the Problems of Refugees, Displaced Persons, Other Forms of Involuntary Displacement and Returnees in the Countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States and Relevant Neighbouring States

    The General Assembly,

    Recalling its resolutions 48/113 of 20 December 1993, 49/173 of 23 December 1994, 50/151 of 21 December 1995, 51/70 of 12 December 1996 and, in particular, 52/102 of 12 December 1997,

    Having considered the report of the Secretary-General1 and that of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees,2


    Recognizing the ongoing acuteness of the migration and displacement problems in the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States and the necessity to follow up the Regional Conference to Address the Problems of Refugees, Displaced Persons, Other Forms of Involuntary Displacement and Returnees in the Countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States and Relevant Neighbouring States and the subsequent conclusions of the Executive Committee of the Programme of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees,3

    Reaffirming the view of the Conference that the primary responsibility for tackling population displacement problems lies with the affected countries themselves and that these issues are to be regarded as national priorities, while at the same time recognizing the need for enhancing international support for the national efforts of the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States aiming at the effective implementation of such responsibilities within the framework of the Programme of Action of the Conference,4

    Noting with satisfaction the efforts of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the International Organization for Migration and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe in developing strategies and practical tools for more effective capacity-building in countries of origin and enhancing programmes to address the needs of various categories of concern to the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States,

    Welcoming the contributions of those countries that responded to the 1998 appeal launched by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Organization for Migration, and appreciating this tangible encouragement to the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States and to further inter-agency cooperation,

    Taking note of the positive results emanating from the implementation of the Programme of Action of the Conference,

    Convinced of the necessity of further strengthening practical measures for the achievement of effective implementation of the Programme of Action,

    Recalling that the protection and promotion of human rights and the strengthening of democratic institutions are essential to prevent mass population displacement,

    Mindful that effective implementation of the recommendations contained in the Programme of Action should be facilitated and can be ensured only through cooperation and coordinated activities undertaken in this respect by all interested States, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations and other actors,

    Noting and reaffirming the importance of the 1951 Convention5 and the 1967 Protocol6 relating to the Status of Refugees,


    1.	Takes note of the reports of the Secretary-General1 and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees;2

    2.	Calls upon Governments of the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States, in cooperation with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the International Organization for Migration and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, to strengthen their efforts and mutual cooperation relating to the follow-up to the Regional Conference to Address the Problems of Refugees, Displaced Persons, Other Forms of Involuntary Displacement and Returnees in the Countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States and Relevant Neighbouring States, and welcomes the positive results achieved by them in the implementation of the Programme of Action of the Conference;4

    3.	Invites all countries that have not yet done so to accede to and implement fully the 1951 Convention5 and the 1967 Protocol6 relating to the Status of Refugees, while welcoming the accession of Turkmenistan to the Convention;

    4.	Calls upon States and interested international organizations, in a spirit of solidarity and burden-sharing, to provide appropriate forms and levels of support for the practical implementation of the Programme of Action;

    5.	Invites international financial and other institutions to contribute to the financing of projects and programmes within the framework of the implementation of the Programme of Action;

    6.	Invites the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States to intensify bilateral and subregional cooperation in maintaining the balance of commitments and interests in the process leading up to the implementation of the Programme of Action;

    7.	Calls upon the Governments of the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States to continue to strengthen their commitment to the principles underpinning the Programme of Action, in particular human rights and refugee protection principles, and to lend high-level political support to ensure progress in its implementation;

    8.	Invites the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Organization for Migration to enhance their mutual relationship with other key international actors, such as the Council of Europe, the European Commission and human rights, development and financial institutions, in order better to address the wide-ranging and complex issues in the Programme of Action;

    9.	Welcomes the progress made in building civil society, in particular through the development of the non-governmental sector and the development of cooperation between non-governmental organizations and the Governments of a number of countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States, and notes in this regard the relationship between the progress made in implementing the Programme of Action and the success in promoting civil society, especially in the field of human rights;

    10.	Encourages the involvement of intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations in the follow-up to the Conference, and invites them to demonstrate stronger support for the process of the multinational constructive dialogue among a wide range of countries concerned and further action with a view to the full implementation of the recommendations of the Conference;


    11.	Emphasizes the necessity of fulfilling the recommendations of the Programme of Action relating to ensuring respect for human rights as an important factor in the management of migration flows, the consolidation of democracy, the rule of law and stability;

    12.	Recognizes the importance of undertaking measures, on the basis of strict adherence to all of the principles of international law, including humanitarian law and international human rights standards, to prevent situations that lead to new flows of refugees, displaced persons and other forms of involuntary displacement;

    13.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session on the progress achieved in the implementation of the Programme of Action;

    14.	Decides to continue examination of the question at its fifty-fourth session.


	85th plenary meeting
	9 December 1998

1 A/53/413.
2 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-third Session, Supplement No. 12 (A/53/12).
3 Ibid., Fifty-first Session, Supplement No. 12A and corrigendum (A/51/12/Add.1 and Corr.1), sect. III.B; ibid., Fifty-second Session, Supplement No. 12A (A/52/12/Add.1), sect. III.B; and ibid., Fifty-third Session, Supplement No. 12A (A/53/12/Add.1), sect. III.B.
4 A/51/341 and Corr.1, appendix.
5 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 189, No. 2545.
6 Ibid., vol. 606, No. 8791.
[COMMENT1]
<<ODS JOB NO>>N9976747E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/53/123<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

A/RES/53/123
Page 2





99-76747	/...


99-76747	/...

A/RES/53/123
Page 


	A/RES/53/123
	Page 



	/...


	/...





