[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 22 December 2005
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/60/488)]
60/189.	Report of the Governing Council of the United Nations 
Environment Programme on its twenty-third session


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 2997 (XXVII) of 15 December 1972, 53/242 of 28 July 1999, 56/193 of 21 December 2001, 57/251 of 20 December 2002, 58/209 of 23 December 2003 and 59/226 of 22 December 2004,
	Taking into account Agenda 211 and the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation"),2
	Reaffirming the role of the United Nations Environment Programme as the principal body within the United Nations system in the field of environment, which should take into account, within its mandate, the sustainable development needs of developing countries, as well as countries with economies in transition,
	Reaffirming also that capacity-building and technology support to developing countries, as well as countries with economies in transition, in environment-related fields are important components of the work of the United Nations Environment Programme,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme at its twenty-third session3 and the decisions contained therein;
	2.	Notes that the Governing Council, at its twenty-third session, discussed all components of the recommendations on international environmental governance as contained in its decision SS.VII/1,4 and notes also that reporting on international environmental governance is included in the agenda of its ninth special session; 
	3.	Welcomes the adoption of the Bali Strategic Plan for Technology Support and Capacity-building,5 calls for the intensification of ongoing efforts to implement the Plan with regard both to mobilizing adequate resources, from all sources, as well as the strengthening of cooperation between the United Nations Environment Programme and other stakeholders, based on their comparative advantages, and invites Governments and other stakeholders in a position to do so to provide the necessary funding and technical assistance for its full implementation; 
	4.	Also welcomes the continued efforts by the United Nations Environment Programme through the joint United Nations Environment Programme/Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs Environment Unit, taking into account the respective mandates of relevant United Nations entities towards the strengthening of environmental emergency response and disaster prevention, preparedness and early warning systems;
	5.	Emphasizes the need for the United Nations Environment Programme, within its mandate, to further contribute to sustainable development programmes, the implementation of Agenda 211 and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation2 at all levels and to the work of the Commission on Sustainable Development, bearing in mind the mandate of the Commission;
	6.	Recognizes the need to strengthen the scientific base of the United Nations Environment Programme, as recommended by the intergovernmental consultation on strengthening the scientific base of the Programme, including the reinforcement of the scientific capacity of developing countries, as well as countries with economies in transition, including through the provision of adequate financial resources; 
	7.	Recalls the resolve of Member States to promote the sound management of chemicals and hazardous wastes throughout their life cycle, in accordance with Agenda 21 and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation, aiming to achieve that by 2020 chemicals are used and produced in ways that lead to the minimization of significant adverse effects on human health and the environment using transparent and science-based risk assessment and risk management procedure, by adopting and implementing a voluntary strategic approach to international management of chemicals, and to support developing countries in strengthening their capacity for the sound management of chemicals and hazardous wastes by providing technical and financial assistance, as appropriate;
	8.	Calls upon the United Nations Environment Programme to continue within its mandate its activities related to small island developing States, in pursuance of the outcome of the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, held in Port Louis from 10 to 14  January 2005;6  
	9.	Emphasizes the need to further enhance coordination and cooperation among the relevant United Nations organizations in the promotion of the environmental dimension of sustainable development, and welcomes the continued active participation of the United Nations Environment Programme in the United Nations Development Group; 
	10.	Welcomes the progress made in the implementation of the provisions of section III.B. of the appendix to decision SS.VII/1 of the Governing Council on strengthening the role and financial situation of the United Nations Environment Programme, including the significant broadening of the donor base and increasing total contributions to the Environment Fund, and in this regard notes that the Governing Council will review the implementation of those provisions at its twenty-fourth session; 
	11.	Reiterates the need for stable, adequate and predictable financial resources for the United Nations Environment Programme, and, in accordance with resolution 2997 (XXVII), underlines the need to consider the adequate reflection of all administrative and management costs of the Programme in the context of the United Nations regular budget; 
	12.	Emphasizes the importance of the Nairobi headquarters location of the United Nations Environment Programme, and requests the Secretary-General to keep the resource needs of the Programme and the United Nations Office at Nairobi under review so as to permit the delivery, in an effective manner, of necessary services to the Programme and to the other United Nations organs and organizations in Nairobi;
	13.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-first session, under the item entitled "Sustainable development", a sub-item entitled "Report of the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme on its ninth special session".

68th plenary meeting
22 December 2005
1 Report of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, Rio de Janeiro, 3-14 June 1992, vol. I, Resolutions Adopted by the Conference (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.93.I.8 and corrigendum), resolution 1, annex II.
2 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 2, annex.
3 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixtieth Session, Supplement No. 25 and addendum (A/60/25 and Add.1).
4 Ibid., Fifty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 25 (A/57/25), annex I.
5 UNEP/GC.23/6/Add.1 and Corr.1, annex.
6 Report of the International Meeting to Review the Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing States, Port Louis, Mauritius, 10-14 January 2005 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.05.II.A.4 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0549894E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/60/189<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/60/189General AssemblyDistr.: General
9 February 2006Sixtieth session
Agenda item 52

05-49894

A/RES/60/189

A/RES/60/189

2

3

