[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 2 December 2008
[on the report of the First Committee (A/63/393)]
63/85.	Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 62/57 of 5 December 2007,
	Recalling with satisfaction the adoption and the entry into force of the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects,1 and its amended article 1,2 and the Protocol on Non-Detectable Fragments (Protocol I),1 the Protocol on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Mines, Booby Traps and Other Devices (Protocol II)1 and its amended version,3 the Protocol on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Incendiary Weapons (Protocol III),1 the Protocol on Blinding Laser Weapons (Protocol IV)4 and the Protocol on Explosive Remnants of War (Protocol V),5
	Welcoming the results of the Third Review Conference of the States Parties to the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects,
	Welcoming also the results of the 2007 Meeting of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention, held from 7 to 13 November 2007 in Geneva,
	Welcoming further the results of the Ninth Annual Conference of the High Contracting Parties to Amended Protocol II, held on 6 November 2007 in Geneva,
	Welcoming the results of the First Conference of the High Contracting Parties to Protocol V, held on 5 November 2007 in Geneva,
	Recalling the role played by the International Committee of the Red Cross in the elaboration of the Convention and the Protocols thereto, and welcoming the particular efforts of various international, non-governmental and other organizations in raising awareness of the humanitarian consequences of explosive remnants of war,
	1.	Calls upon all States that have not yet done so to take all measures to become parties, as soon as possible, to the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects1 and the Protocols thereto, as amended, with a view to achieving the widest possible adherence to these instruments at an early date, and so as to ultimately achieve their universality;
	2.	Calls upon all States parties to the Convention that have not yet done so to express their consent to be bound by the Protocols to the Convention and the amendment extending the scope of the Convention and the Protocols thereto to include armed conflicts of a non-international character;
	3.	Emphasizes the importance of the universalization of the Protocol on Explosive Remnants of War (Protocol V);5
	4.	Welcomes the additional ratifications and acceptances of or accessions to the Convention, as well as the consents to be bound by the Protocols thereto;
	5.	Also welcomes the adoption by the Third Review Conference of a Plan of Action to promote universality of the Convention and its annexed Protocols,6 and expresses appreciation for the continued efforts of the Secretary-General, as depositary of the Convention and its annexed Protocols, the Chairperson of the Meeting of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention, the President of the First Conference of the High Contracting Parties to Protocol V and the President of the Ninth Annual Conference of the High Contracting Parties to Amended Protocol II, on behalf of the High Contracting Parties, to achieve the goal of universality;
	6.	Further welcomes the commitment by States parties to continue to address the humanitarian problems caused by certain specific types of munitions in all their aspects, including cluster munitions, with a view to minimizing the humanitarian impact of these munitions;
	7.	Expresses support for the work conducted by the Group of Governmental Experts to negotiate a proposal to address urgently the humanitarian impact of cluster munitions, while striking a balance between military and humanitarian considerations, and to make every effort to negotiate this proposal as rapidly as possible and report on the progress made to the next Meeting of the High Contracting Parties, in November 2008;
	8.	Welcomes the commitment of States parties to the Protocol on Explosive Remnants of War (Protocol V) to the effective and efficient implementation of the Protocol and the decisions by the First Conference of the High Contracting Parties establishing a comprehensive framework for exchange of information and cooperation,7 and also welcomes the holding of the first Meeting of Experts as a mechanism for consultation and cooperation among the States parties;
	9.	Notes with appreciation that 2008 marks the twenty-fifth anniversary of the entry into force of the Convention, as well as the tenth anniversary of the entry into force of the Amended Protocol II; 
	10.	Notes that, in conformity with article 8 of the Convention, conferences may be convened to examine amendments to the Convention or to any of the Protocols thereto, to examine additional protocols concerning other categories of conventional weapons not covered by existing Protocols or to review the scope and application of the Convention and the Protocols thereto and to examine any proposed amendments or additional protocols;
	11.	Requests the Secretary-General to render the necessary assistance and to provide such services, including summary records, as may be required for the Second Conference of the High Contracting Parties to Protocol V, to be held on 10 and 11 November 2008, for the Tenth Annual Conference of the High Contracting Parties to Amended Protocol II, to be held on 12 November 2008, and for the Meeting of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention, to be held on 13 and 14 November 2008, as well as for any continuation of work after the meetings;
	12.	Also requests the Secretary-General, in his capacity as depositary of the Convention and the Protocols thereto, to continue to inform the General Assembly periodically, by electronic means, of ratifications and acceptances of and accessions to the Convention, its amended article 12 and the Protocols thereto; 
	13.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-fourth session the item entitled "Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which May Be Deemed to Be Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscriminate Effects".

61st plenary meeting
2 December 2008
1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1342, No. 22495.
2 See CCW/CONF.II/2 and Corr.1, part II.
3 CCW/CONF.I/16 (Part I), annex B.
4 Ibid., annex A.
5 See CCW/MSP/2003/3, annex V, appendix II.
6 See CCW/CONF.III/11 (Part II), annex III.
7 See CCW/P.V/CONF/2007/1 and Corr.1 and 2.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0847589E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/63/85<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

1
    

1

United NationsA/RES/63/85General AssemblyDistr.: General
13 January 2009Sixty-third session
Agenda item 93

08-47589

A/RES/63/85

A/RES/63/85

2

3

