[hj1]UNITED									A
NATIONS



             General Assembly


                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/54/120
                                                                          20 January 2000

                                                                          



Fifty-fourth session
Agenda item 106


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/54/595)]


54/120.  Policies and programmes involving youth

    The General Assembly,

    Recalling its resolution 50/81 of 14 December 1995, by which it adopted the World Programme of Action for Youth to the Year 2000 and Beyond, annexed thereto, as an integral part of that resolution,

    Recalling also its resolutions 32/135 of 16 December 1977 and 36/17 of 9 November 1981, by which it adopted guidelines for the improvement of the channels of communication between the United Nations and youth and youth organizations, and 40/14 of 18 November 1985, entitled "International Youth Year: Participation, Development, Peace", by which it endorsed the guidelines for further planning and suitable follow-up in the field of youth as contained in the report of the Advisory Committee for the International Youth Year on its fourth session, held at Vienna from 25 March to 3 April 1985,1

    Noting especially that, according to paragraph 123 of the Programme of Action, current regional and interregional conferences of ministers responsible for youth affairs in Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean and Western Asia were invited to intensify cooperation among each other and to consider meeting regularly at the international level under the aegis of the United Nations to provide an effective forum for a focused global dialogue on youth-related issues,


    Noting that, in paragraph 124 of the Programme of Action, youth-related bodies and organizations of the United Nations system were invited to cooperate with the above-mentioned conferences,

    Recalling that, in paragraph 125 of the Programme of Action, the World Youth Forum of the United Nations system was invited to contribute to the implementation of the Programme of Action through the identification and promotion of joint initiatives to further its objectives so that they could better reflect the interests of youth,

    Recalling also Economic and Social Council resolution 1997/55 of 23 July 1997 and General Assembly resolution 52/83 of 12 December 1997, in which the Council and the Assembly welcomed the offer of the Government of Portugal to host the World Conference of Ministers Responsible for Youth at Lisbon from 8 to 12 August 1998,

    Welcoming the holding of the World Conference of Ministers Responsible for Youth, hosted by the Government of Portugal in cooperation with the United Nations, as well as the support of the Government of Portugal for the holding of the third session of the World Youth Forum at Braga, Portugal, from 2 to 7 August 1998,

    1.	Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the World Programme of Action for Youth to the Year 2000 and Beyond2 and the Lisbon Declaration on Youth Policies and Programmes, adopted at the World Conference of Ministers Responsible for Youth;3

    2.	Notes the holding of the third session of the World Youth Forum of the United Nations system at Braga, Portugal, from 2 to 7 August 1998, and expresses its appreciation to the Government of Portugal for its support;

    3.	Calls upon all States, all United Nations bodies, the specialized agencies, the regional commissions and the intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations concerned, in particular youth organizations, to make every possible effort towards the implementation of the Programme of Action and to consider, within its framework, the appropriate ways and means to follow up the Lisbon Declaration, in accordance with their experience, situation and priorities;

    4.	Invites all relevant programmes, funds, specialized agencies and other bodies within the United Nations system, as well as other intergovernmental organizations and regional financial institutions, to give greater support to national youth policies and programmes within their country programmes as a way to follow up the World Conference;

    5.	Reiterates the call made by the World Conference to strengthen the Youth Unit of the Division for Social Policy and Development of the Secretariat through the provision of all regular staffing and resources necessary for the fulfilment of its mandate, including the provision of effective assistance in the implementation of the Programme of Action;


    6.	Encourages the regional commissions to follow up the World Conference in their respective regions, in coordination with regional meetings of ministers responsible for youth and regional non-governmental youth organizations, and to provide advisory services to support national youth policies and programmes in each region;

    7.	Endorses the recommendation made by the World Conference that 12 August be declared International Youth Day,4 and recommends that public information activities be organized at all levels to support the Day as a way to promote better awareness, especially among youth, of the Programme of Action;

    8.	Invites the Secretary-General to participate actively in the effective follow-up to the World Conference, bearing in mind General Assembly resolution 52/83 and Economic and Social Council resolution 1997/55 and within the framework of the Programme of Action;

    9.	Recommends that the second World Conference of Ministers Responsible for Youth be organized under the aegis of the United Nations, and notes with appreciation the offer made by the Government of Turkey to organize the second World Conference together with the fifth session of the World Youth Forum and the World Youth Festival;5

    10.	Welcomes the offer of the Government of Senegal to host the fourth session of the World Youth Forum in 2001;6

    11.	Calls upon Member States, all United Nations bodies and non-governmental organizations to continue to implement fully the guidelines for further planning and suitable follow-up in the field of youth, which the General Assembly endorsed by its resolution 40/14, and the guidelines for the improvement of the channels of communication between the United Nations and youth and youth organizations, which the Assembly adopted by its resolutions 32/135 and 36/17, and in particular to facilitate, in accordance with these resolutions, the activities of youth mechanisms that have been set up by youth and youth organizations;

    12.	Recognizes the important role that could be played by the United Nations Youth Fund for the implementation of agreed programmes and mandates on youth, including the provision of support for youth activities promoting South-South cooperation;

    13.	Invites all Governments and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to contribute to the Fund, and requests the Secretary-General to take appropriate actions to encourage contributions;

    14.	Recognizes the important role of non-governmental youth organizations in the implementation of the Programme of Action at the national and international levels and in the development and evaluation of national policies, in particular concerning youth, and encourages Governments to ensure that the perspective of young people is reflected in national policies and programmes;


    15.	Calls upon all States, all United Nations bodies, the specialized agencies, the regional commissions and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to exchange knowledge and expertise on youth-related issues, upon setting up the ways and means to do so;

    16.	Reiterates the call made in the Programme of Action to Member States to consider including youth representatives in their delegations to the General Assembly and other relevant United Nations meetings, thus broadening the channels of communication and enhancing the discussion of youth-related issues, and requests the Secretary-General to convey this invitation again to Member States;

    17.	Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session on the implementation of the present resolution, in particular on progress made in the implementation of the Programme of Action.


	 83rd plenary meeting
	17 December 1999

1  A/40/256, annex.
2 A/54/59.
3 See WCMRY/1998/28, chap. I, resolution 1.
4 Ibid., resolution 2.
5 See E/CN.5/1999/14, annex.
6 See A/54/66-E/1999/6.
[hj1]
<<ODS JOB NO>>N0024620E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/54/120<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------


00 24620	/...


00 24620	/...

A/RES/53/
Page 


	A/RES/54/120
	Page 


A/RES/53/
Page 



	/...


	/...

A/RES/54/120
Page 




	A/RES/54/120
	Page 








