[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 19 December 2007
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/62/420)]
62/198.	Implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and strengthening of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 3327 (XXIX) of 16 December 1974, 32/162 of 19 December 1977, 34/115 of 14 December 1979, 56/205 and 56/206 of 21 December 2001, 57/275 of 20 December 2002, 58/226 and 58/227 of 23 December 2003, 59/239 of 22 December 2004, 60/203 of 22 December 2005 and 61/206 of 20 December 2006,
	Taking note of Economic and Social Council resolutions 2002/38 of 26 July 2002 and 2003/62 of 25 July 2003 and Council decisions 2004/300 of 23 July 2004, 2005/298 of 26 July 2005, 2006/247 of 27 July 2006 and 2007/249 of 26 July 2007,
	Recalling the goal contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration1 of achieving a significant improvement in the lives of at least 100 million slum-dwellers by 2020 and the goal contained in the Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development ("Johannesburg Plan of Implementation")2 to halve, by 2015, the proportion of people who lack access to safe drinking water and sanitation,
	Recalling also the Habitat Agenda,3 the Declaration on Cities and Other Human Settlements in the New Millennium,4 the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation and the Monterrey Consensus of the International Conference on Financing for Development,5
	Recalling further the 2005 World Summit Outcome,6 which calls upon the States Members of the United Nations to achieve significant improvement in the lives of at least 100 million slum-dwellers by 2020, recognizing the urgent need for the provision of increased resources for affordable housing and housing-related infrastructure, prioritizing slum prevention and slum upgrading, and to encourage support for the United Nations Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation and its Slum Upgrading Facility, 
	Recognizing the significance of the urban dimension of poverty eradication and the need to integrate water and sanitation and other issues within a comprehensive framework for sustainable urbanization,
	Recognizing also the importance of decentralization policies for achieving sustainable human settlements development in line with the Habitat Agenda and the internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals,
	Acknowledging the importance of the seminal findings on the scale and pace of the urbanization of poverty and deprivation contained in the report entitled State of the World's Cities 2006-2007: the Millennium Development Goals and Urban Sustainability - 30 Years of Shaping the Habitat Agenda7 and the Global Report on Human Settlements 2007: Enhancing Urban Safety and Security,8
	Recognizing the negative impact of environmental degradation, including climate change, desertification and loss of biodiversity, on human settlements,
	Conscious of the unique opportunity provided by the Cities Without Slums Initiative mentioned in the Millennium Declaration for realizing economies of scale and substantial multiplier effects in helping to attain the other internationally agreed development goals,
	Welcoming the offer of the Government of China and the city of Nanjing to host the fourth session of the World Urban Forum from 13 to 17 October 2008,
	Recognizing the need for UN-Habitat to sharpen its focus on all areas within its mandate,
	Recognizing also the continued need for increased and predictable financial contributions to the United Nations Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation to ensure timely, effective and concrete global implementation of the Habitat Agenda, the Declaration on Cities and Other Human Settlements in the New Millennium and the relevant internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the Millennium Declaration and the Johannesburg Declaration and Plan of Implementation,
	Acknowledging the ongoing efforts of UN-Habitat towards more sustainable post-disaster and post-conflict reconstruction and recovery through its participation in the Executive Committee on Humanitarian Affairs,
	Noting the efforts of UN-Habitat in strengthening its collaboration with the World Bank, the regional development banks and domestic financial institutions, ensuring that its policy advisory and capacity-building activities leverage investment finance to improve water and sanitation as an entry point to the attainment of internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the coordinated implementation of the Habitat Agenda9 and the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and strengthening of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat);10
	2.	Encourages Governments to consider an enhanced approach to achieving the Cities Without Slums Initiative mentioned in the United Nations Millennium Declaration1 by upgrading existing slums and creating policies and programmes, according to national circumstances, to forestall the growth of future slums, and in this regard invites the international donor community and multilateral and regional development banks to support the efforts of developing countries, inter alia, through increased voluntary financial assistance;
	3.	Recognizes that Governments have the primary responsibility for the sound and effective implementation of the Habitat Agenda,3 the Declaration on Cities and Other Human Settlements in the New Millennium4 and the Millennium Declaration, and stresses the need for the international community to implement fully its commitment to support Governments of developing countries in their efforts to develop inclusive urban development and urban poverty reduction strategies, through the provision of the requisite resources, capacity-building, the transfer of technology on mutually agreed terms and the creation of an international enabling environment;
	4.	Welcomes the vision, sharpened thematic focus and emphasis on management excellence of the UN-Habitat medium-term strategic and institutional plan for the period 2008-2013,11 and encourages ongoing efforts towards its effective implementation, including through improvements in the internal operations and programme management of UN-Habitat;
	5.	Also welcomes the ongoing efforts of UN-Habitat to develop a results-based and less fragmented budget structure with a view to securing maximum efficiency, accountability and transparency in programme delivery regardless of funding source;
	6.	Takes note of the decision of the Governing Council of UN-Habitat to enable UN-Habitat to undertake from 2007 to 2011 a four-year phase of experimental reimbursable seeding operations and other innovative financing arrangements, as defined in Governing Council resolution 21/10,12 bearing in mind the provisions of the special annex for the United Nations Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation appended by the Secretary-General to the Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nations,13 and taking into consideration the relevant elements of the operational procedures and guidelines;
	7.	Notes the approval by the Governing Council of UN-Habitat of the guidelines on decentralization and strengthening of local authorities,14 and requests UN-Habitat to assist interested Governments in adapting the guidelines to their national contexts, where appropriate, and in further developing tools and indicators as part of its support for the application of the guidelines, bearing in mind that the guidelines do not constitute a uniform or rigid blueprint applicable to all States Members of the United Nations;
	8.	Encourages relevant United Nations bodies and other international and regional organizations to mainstream the guiding principles on access to basic services for all,15 within the context of human settlements, in their development policies and programmes, and requests UN-Habitat to assist interested Governments in adapting the guiding principles and any guidelines adopted by the Governing Council to their national contexts, where appropriate;
	9.	Encourages Governments to promote the principles and practice of sustainable urbanization as a major contribution to mitigating the causes of climate change, adapting to the effects of climate change and reducing risks and vulnerabilities in a rapidly urbanizing world, including human settlements in fragile ecosystems, and invites the international donor community to support the efforts of developing countries in this regard;
	10.	Calls for continued financial support to UN-Habitat through increased voluntary contributions, and invites Governments in a position to do so to provide predictable multi-year funding and increased non-earmarked contributions to support programme implementation;
	11.	Invites the international donor community and financial institutions to contribute generously to the Water and Sanitation Trust Fund, the Slum Upgrading Facility and the technical cooperation trust funds to enable UN-Habitat to assist developing countries in mobilizing public investment and private capital for slum upgrading, shelter and basic services;
	12.	Also invites the international donor community and financial institutions to support the experimental reimbursable seeding operations trust fund of the United Nations Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation;
	13.	Requests the Secretary-General to keep the resource needs of UN-Habitat under review so as to enhance its effectiveness in supporting national policies, strategies and plans in attaining the poverty eradication, gender equality, water and sanitation and slum upgrading targets of the Millennium Declaration, the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation2 and the 2005 World Summit Outcome;6
	14.	Emphasizes the importance of the Nairobi headquarters location of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme, and requests the Secretary-General to keep the resource needs of UN-Habitat and the United Nations Office at Nairobi under review so as to permit the delivery, in an effective manner, of necessary services to UN-Habitat and the other United Nations organs and organizations in Nairobi;
	15.	Acknowledges contributions of the regional consultative initiatives, including conferences of ministers in the area of human settlements, for the implementation of the Habitat Agenda and the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals, and invites the international community to continue to support such efforts and the implementation of the outcomes of those initiatives;
	16.	Calls upon UN-Habitat to strengthen efforts to coordinate and implement its normative and operational activities through the enhanced normative and operational framework elaborated in the medium-term strategic and institutional plan, reinforcing its normative activities, and invites all countries in a position to do so to support the activities of UN-Habitat in this regard;
	17.	Requests UN-Habitat to promote, in consultation with national Governments, urban poverty reduction within the framework of the United Nations Development Assistance Framework and the common country assessment and to align its policy advisory and capacity-building activities with the World Bank, regional development banks, other financial institutions, regional organizations and other relevant partners to field-test innovative policies, practices and pilot projects in order to mobilize resources to increase the supply of affordable credit for slum upgrading and other pro-poor human settlements development in developing countries;
	18.	Also requests UN-Habitat to encourage collaboration among all the Habitat Agenda partners on analytical policy work, including the preparation of its flagship reports and monitoring activities, and to identify opportunities for strengthening joint programmes of work on capacity-building for the reduction of urban poverty, including on "localizing the Millennium Development Goals"; 
	19.	Reiterates its invitation to all Governments to participate actively in the fourth session of the World Urban Forum, and invites donor countries to support the participation of representatives from developing countries, in particular the least developed countries, including women and young people, in the Forum; 
	20.	Requests UN-Habitat, through its involvement in the Executive Committee on Humanitarian Affairs and through contacts with relevant United Nations agencies and partners in the field, to promote the early involvement of human settlements experts in the assessment and development of prevention, rehabilitation and reconstruction programmes to support the efforts of developing countries affected by natural disasters and complex humanitarian emergencies;
	21.	Also requests UN-Habitat, within its mandate, to continue to work closely with other relevant agencies of the United Nations system, and strongly reiterates its invitation to the Inter-Agency Standing Committee to consider including UN-Habitat in its membership, acknowledging the important role and contribution of UN-Habitat in supporting the efforts of countries affected by natural disasters and complex emergencies to develop prevention, rehabilitation and reconstruction programmes for the transition from relief to development;
	22.	Encourages Member States to strengthen or establish, as appropriate, broad-based national Habitat committees with a view to mainstreaming sustainable urbanization and urban poverty reduction in their respective national development strategies;
	23.	Encourages the Economic and Social Council to include in its high-level discussions the issues of sustainable urbanization, urban poverty reduction and slum-upgrading, including access to basic services for all and further mainstreaming access by the poor to water and sanitation as a key contribution to the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals;
	24.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its sixty-third session a report on the implementation of the present resolution;
	25.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-third session the item entitled "Implementation of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II) and strengthening of the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)".

78th plenary meeting
19 December 2007
1 See resolution 55/2.
2 Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum), chap. I, resolution 2, annex.
3 Report of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements (Habitat II), Istanbul, 3-14 June 1996 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.97.IV.6), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
4 Resolution S-25/2, annex.
5 Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico, 18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
6 See resolution 60/1.
7 United Nations publication, Sales No. E.06.III.Q.3.
8 United Nations publication, Sales No. E.07.III.Q.1.
9 E/2007/58.
10 A/62/219.
11 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-second Session, Supplement No. 8 (A/62/8), annex I.B, resolution 21/2.
12 Ibid., annex I.B.
13 ST/SGB/2006/8.
14 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-second Session, Supplement No. 8 (A/62/8), annex I.B, resolution 21/3.
15 Ibid., resolution 21/4.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0747565E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/62/198<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/62/198General AssemblyDistr.: General
22 February 2008Sixty-second session
Agenda item 55

07-47565

A/RES/62/198

A/RES/62/198

6

5

