[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 15 April 2016
[without reference to a Main Committee (A/70/L.45)]
70/261.	Modalities for the Comprehensive High-level Midterm Review of the Implementation of the Istanbul Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2011-2020


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 69/231 of 19 December 2014 and 70/216 of 22 December 2015 on the follow-up to the Fourth United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries, 
	Reaffirming its resolutions 70/1 of 25 September 2015, entitled "Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development", and 69/313 of 27 July 2015 on the Addis Ababa Action Agenda of the Third International Conference on Financing for Development, 
	1.	Recommends the provisional agenda of the Comprehensive High-level Midterm Review of the Implementation of the Istanbul Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2011-2020, as set out in document A/CONF.228/1, for adoption at the Midterm Review;
	2.	Recalls the modalities approved in its resolutions 69/231 and 70/216, and decides that the present resolution amends and complements these modalities and that further decisions regarding arrangements for the Midterm Review may be taken by the President of the General Assembly in consultation with Member States;
	3.	Requests the co-facilitators to present a draft outcome document in the form of a political declaration, by the first half of March 2016 and in advance of the preparatory meeting of experts, prepared on the basis of inputs from the national and regional preparatory meetings, the report of the Secretary-General and other inputs, including those from Member States;
	4.	Decides that the Midterm Review shall elect from among the representatives of participating States the following officers: a President and an ex officio Vice-President from the host country, and nine Vice-Presidents,1 one of whom shall be designated as Rapporteur;
	5.	Also decides that the Under-Secretary-General and High Representative for the Least Developed Countries, Landlocked Developing Countries and Small Island Developing States shall serve as the Secretary-General of the Midterm Review, and shall be responsible for making all the necessary arrangements for carrying out the work of the Midterm Review;
	6.	Further decides that the opening plenary meeting of the Midterm Review will include statements by the President of the Midterm Review, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the President of the General Assembly, the President of the Economic and Social Council, the former and current Chair of the Group of Least Developed Countries, the President of the European Commission, the Chair of the African Union, the President of the World Bank Group and one representative each from civil society and the private sector; 
	7.	Decides that the Midterm Review four thematic round-table meetings, to be held in parallel with the plenary meetings, will be scheduled as follows:
		27 May 2016, from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m.
		28 May 2016, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m.
		29 May 2016, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.
	8.	Also decides that the thematic meetings will focus on identifying concrete suggestions to further strengthen the global partnership for development for least developed countries in all priority areas of the Istanbul Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2011-20202 in order to ensure the timely, effective and full implementation of the Programme of Action during the remainder of the decade, while taking into account synergy and coherence of the Programme of Action with global processes, including the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development,3 the Addis Ababa Action Agenda of the Third International Conference on Financing for Development,4 the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030,5 and the Paris Agreement under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change,6 and that the four round tables will be held on the following themes:
Round table 1: 	Productive capacity, agriculture, food security and rural development 
Round table 2: 	Trade and commodities; and economic diversification and graduation
Round table 3: 	Human and social development; and good governance at all levels 
Round table 4: 	Multiple crises and other emerging challenges; and mobilizing financial resources for development and capacity-building 
	9.	Further decides that the organizational arrangements of the round tables will be as follows: 
	(a)	Each round table will be co-chaired by two Chairs, one from the least developed countries and one from the development partners, to be appointed by the President of the Midterm Review, from among representatives at the level of Head of State or Government and/or at the ministerial level; 
	(b)	The Secretary-General of the Midterm Review, in consultation with the President of the General Assembly, will select up to four panellists for each of the round tables, and the panel discussion will be followed by an interactive debate among States and other relevant representatives and stakeholders; 
	(c)	The round tables will be interactive and open to all conference participants. There will be no prepared list of speakers. At the discretion of the Chair or Chairs, priority in the order of speakers will be given to those speaking at the level of Head of State or Government or at the ministerial level. The round tables will aim to achieve a balance among speakers from all stakeholders. In order to provide for maximum participation, interventions should not exceed three minutes. Representatives are invited to indicate to the Secretariat by e-mail if they will be represented in a round table at the level of Head of State or Government or at the ministerial level;
	10.	Decides that summaries of the round-table meetings will be presented orally by the Co-Chairs at the closing plenary meeting; 
	11.	Reiterates the importance of the effective participation of all relevant stakeholders, including parliamentarians, civil society and the private sector, in the Midterm Review and its preparatory process, and decides that:
	(a)	Non-governmental organizations that are in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council and non-governmental organizations accredited to the Fourth United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries shall register with the Secretariat in order to participate in the Midterm Review;
	(b)	The President of the General Assembly shall also draw up a list of representatives of other relevant non-governmental organizations, civil society organizations, academic institutions and the private sector who may participate in the Midterm Review as observers, taking into account the principles of transparency and of equitable geographical representation, and will submit the proposed list to Member States for their consideration on a non-objection basis and bring the list to the attention of the Assembly.7

91st plenary meeting
15 April 2016

1 Two from each of the following groups: African States, Asia-Pacific States, Eastern European States and Latin American and Caribbean States; and one from Western European and other States. 
2 Report of the Fourth United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries, Istanbul, Turkey, 
9-13 May 2011 (A/CONF.219/7), chap. II.
3 Resolution 70/1.
4 Resolution 69/313, annex.
5 Resolution 69/283, annex II.
6 See FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1, decision 1/CP.21, annex.
7 The list will include proposed as well as final names. The general basis of any objections, if requested by one or more States Members of the United Nations or States members of the specialized agencies, will be made known to the Office of the President of the General Assembly and the requester.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1610841E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/70/261<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

1
    

1

United NationsA/RES/70/261General AssemblyDistr.: General
2 May 2016Seventieth session
Agenda item 23 (a) 

15-17015 (E)
*15-17015*Please recycle 

A/RES/70/261Modalities for the Comprehensive High-level Midterm Review of the Implementation of the Istanbul Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2011-2020

Modalities for the Comprehensive High-level Midterm Review of the Implementation of the Istanbul Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2011-2020A/RES/70/261

2/2

3/3

