[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 20 December 2006
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/61/425/Add.1)]
61/211.	Third United Nations Conference on the 
Least Developed Countries


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling the Brussels Declaration1 and the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2001-2010,2
	Recalling also the United Nations Millennium Declaration,3 in particular paragraph 15 thereof, in which the Heads of State and Government undertook to address the special needs of the least developed countries,
	Recalling further its resolution 57/270 B of 23 June 2003 on the integrated and coordinated implementation of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and summits in the economic and social fields, 
	Recalling the 2005 World Summit Outcome,4
	Recalling also its resolution 60/228 of 23 December 2005,
	Recalling further its resolution 61/1 of 19 September 2006,
	Reaffirming its resolution 60/265 of 30 June 2006 on the follow-up to the development outcome of the 2005 World Summit, including the Millennium Development Goals and the other internationally agreed development goals,
	Taking note of the Ministerial Declaration of the high-level segment of the 2004 substantive session of the Economic and Social Council on the theme "Resources mobilization and enabling environment for poverty eradication in the context of the implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2001-2010",5
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;6
	2.	Welcomes the contributions made in the lead-up to the midterm comprehensive global review of the implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2001-2010,2 including the elaboration of the Cotonou Strategy for the Further Implementation of the Programme of Action for the Least Developed Countries for the Decade 2001-20107 as an initiative owned and led by the least developed countries;
	3.	Reaffirms its commitment to the Declaration8 adopted by Heads of State and Government and heads of delegations participating in the high-level meeting of the General Assembly on the midterm comprehensive global review of the implementation of the Programme of Action, in which they recommitted themselves to addressing the special needs of the least developed countries by making progress towards the goals of poverty eradication, peace and development;
	4.	Acknowledges the findings of the midterm comprehensive global review, which stressed that despite some progress in the implementation of the Programme of Action, the overall socio-economic situation in the least developed countries continues to be precarious and requires attention and that, given current trends, many least developed countries are unlikely to achieve the goals and objectives set out in the Programme of Action;
	5.	Stresses that the internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium Development Goals, can be effectively achieved in the least developed countries through, in particular, the timely fulfilment of the seven commitments of the Programme of Action;
	6.	Reaffirms that the Programme of Action constitutes a fundamental framework for a strong global partnership, whose goal is to accelerate sustained economic growth, sustainable development and poverty eradication in the least developed countries;
	7.	Also reaffirms that progress in the implementation of the Programme of Action will require effective implementation of national policies and priorities for the sustained economic growth and sustainable development of the least developed countries, as well as strong and committed partnership between those countries and their development partners;
	8.	Underscores the fact that for the further implementation of the Programme of Action, the least developed countries and their development partners must be guided by an integrated approach, a broader genuine partnership, country ownership, market considerations and results-oriented actions;
	9.	Urges the least developed countries to strengthen the implementation of the Programme of Action through their respective national development framework, including, where they exist, Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, the common country assessment and the United Nations Development Assistance Framework;
	10.	Urges development partners to exercise individual best efforts to continue to increase their financial and technical support for the implementation of the Programme of Action;
	11.	Encourages the United Nations Resident Coordinator system to assist the least developed countries in translating goals and targets of the Programme of Action into concrete actions in the light of their national development priorities;
	12.	Encourages the Resident Coordinator system and country teams, as well as country-level representatives of the Bretton Woods institutions, bilateral and multilateral donors and other development partners, to collaborate with and provide support to, as appropriate, the relevant development forums and follow-up mechanisms;
	13.	Invites the organizations of the United Nations system and other multilateral organizations that have not yet done so to mainstream the implementation of the Brussels Declaration1 and the Programme of Action within their programmes of work as well as in their intergovernmental processes and to undertake within their respective mandates multi-year programming of actions in favour of the least developed countries;
	14.	Stresses, within the context of the annual global reviews, as envisaged in the Programme of Action, the need to assess the implementation of the Programme of Action sector by sector, and in this regard invites the United Nations system and all relevant international organizations, consistent with their respective mandates, to report on the progress made in its implementation using quantifiable criteria and indicators to be measured against the goals and targets of the Programme of Action and to participate fully in reviews of the Programme of Action at the national, subregional, regional and global levels;
	15.	Also stresses the crucial importance of integrated and coordinated follow-up, monitoring and reporting for the effective implementation of the Programme of Action at the national, subregional, regional and global levels;
	16.	Requests the Secretary-General to ensure, at the Secretariat level, the full mobilization and coordination of all parts of the United Nations system to facilitate coordinated implementation as well as coherence in the follow-up to and monitoring and review of the Programme of Action at the national, subregional, regional and global levels, including through such coordination mechanisms as the United Nations System Chief Executives Board for Coordination, the United Nations Development Group, the Executive Committee on Economic and Social Affairs and the Inter-agency Expert Group on the Millennium Development Goals Indicators; 
	17.	Reiterates its invitation to the organs, organizations and bodies of the United Nations system, and other relevant multilateral organizations, to provide full support to and cooperation with the Office of the High Representative for the Least Developed Countries, Landlocked Developing Countries and Small Island Developing States;
	18.	Requests the Secretary-General to elaborate and submit to the General Assembly at its sixty-second session a detailed and clearly defined advocacy strategy aimed at raising awareness about the objectives, goals and commitments of the Programme of Action with a view to facilitating its effective and timely implementation;
	19.	Also requests the Secretary-General to submit an annual analytical and results-oriented progress report on the further implementation of the Programme of Action and to make available adequate resources, within existing resources, for the preparation of such a report.

83rd plenary meeting
20 December 2006
1 A/CONF.191/13, chap. I.
2 Ibid., chap. II.
3 See resolution 55/2.
4 See resolution 60/1.
5 A/59/3, chap. III, para. 49.  For the final text, see Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 3.
6 A/61/82-E/2006/74 and Corr.1.
7 A/61/117, annex I.
8 See resolution 61/1.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0650703E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/61/211<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/61/211General AssemblyDistr.: General
6 March 2007Sixty-first session
Agenda item 56 (a)

06-50703

A/RES/61/211

A/RES/61/211

2

3

