[Start1]

Seventy-first session
Agenda item 13 



Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 16 November 2016
[without reference to a Main Committee (A/71/L.10 and Add.1)]
71/8.	Education for democracy


	The General Assembly, 
	Reaffirming the Charter of the United Nations, including the principles and purposes contained therein, and recognizing that human rights, the rule of law and democracy are interlinked and mutually reinforcing and that they belong to the universal and indivisible core values and principles of the United Nations, 
	Reaffirming also the right of everyone to education, which is enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,1 the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,2 the Convention on the Rights of the Child,3 the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,4 the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities5 and in other relevant instruments, 
	Recalling its resolutions 67/18 of 28 November 2012 and 69/268 of 5 March 2015 and the results of the plan of action for the second phase (2010-2014) of the World Programme for Human Rights Education,6 and taking note with appreciation of the plan of action for the third phase (2015-2019) of the World Programme,7 
	Taking note of section VII, entitled "Supporting the global citizenship agenda through education for democracy", of resolution 1 adopted on 20 November 2013 by the General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization at its thirty-seventh session,8 
	Recalling that the Sustainable Development Goals and targets, as set out in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development,9 are integrated and indivisible and balance the three dimensions of sustainable development, and acknowledging the importance of taking measures to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promoting lifelong learning opportunities for all, as well as the need to promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels, 
	Stressing the complementarity and mutual reinforcement of human rights education, training and learning and education for democracy, 
	Reaffirming that democracy is a universal value based on the freely expressed will of people to determine their own political, economic, social and cultural systems and their full participation in all aspects of their lives,10 
	Taking note of the Incheon Declaration: Education 2030: Towards inclusive and equitable quality education and lifelong learning for all, adopted at the World Education Forum 2015, held in Incheon, Republic of Korea, from 19 to 22 May 2015, which affirmed the understanding of education as a main driver of development that is essential for peace, tolerance, human fulfilment and sustainable development, as well as key to achieving full employment and poverty eradication, 
	Taking note also of the Global Education Monitoring Report 2016, which monitors progress towards the education targets within the new Sustainable Development Goals framework, and affirming that education can encourage constructive and inclusive political participation, 
	Recognizing that, while democracies share common features, there is no single model of democracy and that democracy does not belong to any country or region, 
	Mindful of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action of the World Conference on Human Rights,11 the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action adopted at the Fourth World Conference on Women,12 the World Plan of Action on Education for Human Rights and Democracy adopted by the International Congress on Education for Human Rights and Democracy,13 the World Programme for Human Rights Education proclaimed by the General Assembly in its resolution 59/113 A of 10 December 2004 and the United Nations Declaration on Human Rights Education and Training,14 
	Recalling the establishment of the United Nations Democracy Fund and the efforts of the Fund to advance the United Nations democracy agenda, as well as the operational activities in support of democratization processes carried out by the United Nations system, including by the Department of Political Affairs of the Secretariat, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the United Nations Development Programme, 
	Acknowledging the important role of international, regional and other intergovernmental organizations, civil society, academia, the private sector and other stakeholders in support of democracy and education for democracy, 
	Recognizing that education contributes to the strengthening of democracy, good governance and the rule of law at all levels, the reduction of economic inequality, the realization of human rights, gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls, the achievement of all internationally agreed development goals, including the Sustainable Development Goals, the development of human potential, the eradication of poverty and the fostering of greater understanding among peoples, 
	1.	Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Director General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, entitled "Literacy for life: shaping future agendas and education for democracy";15 
	2.	Reaffirms the fundamental link between democratic governance, peace, development and the promotion and protection of all human rights and fundamental freedoms, which are interdependent and mutually reinforcing; 
	3.	Recalls the Global Education First initiative launched by the Secretary-General on 26 September 2012, in particular its third priority area on fostering global citizenship; 
	4.	Also recalls the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development,9 in which Member States committed themselves to the Sustainable Development Goals and targets, including to ensure that all learners acquire the knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable development, including, among others, through education for sustainable development and sustainable lifestyles, human rights, gender equality, promotion of a culture of peace and non-violence, global citizenship and appreciation of cultural diversity and of culture's contribution to sustainable development; 
	5.	Encourages the Secretary-General, United Nations agencies such as the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the United Nations Children's Fund, the United Nations Population Fund, the United Nations Development Programme and the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN-Women) and other relevant stakeholders to strengthen their efforts to promote the values of peace, human rights, democracy, respect for religious and cultural diversity and justice through education; 
	6.	Strongly encourages Member States and national, regional and local education authorities, as appropriate, to integrate education for democracy, along with civic education, human rights education and education for sustainable development into their education standards and to develop and strengthen programmes, curricula and curricular and extracurricular educational activities aimed at the promotion and consolidation of democratic values and democratic governance and human rights, taking into account innovative approaches and best practices in the field, in order to facilitate the empowerment of citizens and their participation in political life and policymaking at all levels; 
	7.	Invites United Nations agencies, funds and programmes, including the United Nations Democracy Fund, the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Children's Fund, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, to provide appropriate expertise and resources for the development of relevant educational programmes and materials for democracy; 
	8.	Encourages international, regional and other intergovernmental organizations, within their respective mandates, to share their best practices and experiences in the field of education for democracy, including but not limited to civic education, with each other and with the United Nations system, as appropriate; 
	9.	Decides to continue its consideration of the issue of education for democracy at its seventy-third session, under the agenda item entitled "Integrated and coordinated implementation of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and summits in the economic, social and related fields"; 
	10.	Invites Governments, the agencies and organizations of the United Nations system and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to intensify their efforts to promote education for democracy, requests the Secretary-General, in cooperation with the Director General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, within existing reporting obligations, to report to the General Assembly at its seventy-third session on the implementation of the present resolution, and invites the Special Rapporteur of the Human Rights Council on the right to education, within her existing mandate, to contribute to the report of the Secretary-General. 

46th plenary meeting 
16 November 2016 


1 Resolution 217 A (III). 
2 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex. 
3 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1577, No. 27531. 
4 Ibid., vol. 1249, No. 20378. 
5 Ibid., vol. 2515, No. 44910. 
6 Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-fifth Session, Supplement No. 53A (A/65/53/Add.1), chap.II, resolution 15/11. 
7 Ibid., Sixty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 53A and corrigenda (A/69/53/Add.1 and Corr.1 and 2), chap. IV, sect. A, resolution 27/12. 
8 United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Records of the General Conference, Thirty-seventh session, Paris, 5-20 November 2013, vol. 1 and corrigendum, Resolutions, sect. IV. 
9 Resolution 70/1. 
10 Resolution 60/1, para. 135. 
11 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III. 
12 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II. 
13 A/CONF.157/PC/42/Add.6. 
14 Resolution 66/137, annex. 
15 A/71/177. 
[Start1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N1638777E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/71/8<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
__________________

__________________

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

A/RES/71/8Education for democracy

Education for democracyA/RES/71/8

4/4

3/4

United NationsA/RES/71/8 General AssemblyDistr.: General
17 November 2016

16-20288 (E)    
*1620288*

