[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 23 December 2005
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/60/490/Add.3)]
		60/227.	International migration and development


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolutions 58/208 of 23 December 2003 and 59/241 of 22 December 2004,
	Recalling also its resolution 57/270 B of 23 June 2003 on the integrated and coordinated implementation of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and summits in the economic and social fields,
	Recalling further the 2005 World Summit Outcome,1 
	Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General,2 
	1.	Decides that the High-level Dialogue on International Migration and Development will be held in New York on 14 and 15 September 2006, and also decides that the High-level Dialogue will discuss the overall theme of the multidimensional aspects of international migration and development in order to identify appropriate ways and means to maximize its development benefits and minimize its negative impacts;
	2.	Invites Member States to participate in the High-level Dialogue at the ministerial level or highest level possible;
	3.	Decides that the Holy See, in its capacity as Observer State, and Palestine, in its capacity as observer, shall participate in the High-level Dialogue; 
	4.	Invites those intergovernmental organizations and entities that have observer status with the General Assembly to participate in the High-level Dialogue;
	5.	Invites relevant United Nations agencies, funds and programmes, as well as the International Organization for Migration, to contribute to the preparation of, and participate in, the High-level Dialogue;
	6.	Decides that the participants in the High-level Dialogue will participate in accordance with the rules of procedure of the General Assembly;
	7.	Also decides that the High-level Dialogue will consist of four plenary meetings and four interactive round tables, within existing resources;
	8.	Further decides that the President of the General Assembly, the President of the Economic and Social Council and the Secretary-General will make introductory statements at the opening of the High-level Dialogue;
	9.	Decides that the round tables will be open to all Member States, the Holy See, in its capacity as Observer State, and Palestine, in its capacity as observer, and representatives of relevant entities of the United Nations system, including its relevant special rapporteurs, and the International Organization for Migration, as well as to other relevant regional and international intergovernmental organizations that have observer status, and also decides that the round tables will be organized as follows:
	(a)	The first set of two interactive round tables will be held concurrently in the afternoon of the first day of the High-level Dialogue; 
	(b)	The second set of two interactive round tables will be held concurrently in the morning of the second day of the High-level Dialogue; 
	(c)	Summaries of the deliberations of the four round-table sessions will be presented orally by the chairpersons of the round-table sessions during the concluding plenary meeting of the High-level Dialogue; 
	10.	Also decides that the themes for each of the four round tables will be the following: 
	(a)	Round table 1 will focus on the effects of international migration on economic and social development;
	(b)	Round table 2 will focus on measures to ensure respect for and protection of the human rights of all migrants, and to prevent and combat smuggling of migrants and trafficking in persons;
	(c)	Round table 3 will focus on the multidimensional aspects of international migration and development, including remittances;
	(d)	Round table 4 will focus on promoting the building of partnerships and capacity-building and the sharing of best practices at all levels, including the bilateral and regional levels, for the benefit of countries and migrants alike;
	11.	Further decides to hold, within existing resources, one-day informal interactive hearings in 2006 with representatives of non-governmental organizations, civil society organizations and the private sector, to be presided over by the President of the General Assembly, and requests the President of the Assembly to prepare a summary of the hearings prior to the High-level Dialogue in September 2006; 
	12.	Decides that the President of the General Assembly will determine the list of invited participants and the exact format and organization of the hearings, in consultation with Member States and representatives of non-governmental organizations in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council, civil society organizations and the private sector;
	13.	Also decides that representatives of non-governmental organizations in consultative status with the Economic and Social Council, civil society organizations and the private sector, one from each grouping being selected during the informal interactive hearings, may also participate in each of the round tables of the High-level Dialogue, and that the President of the General Assembly will determine the list of such representatives, taking into account the principle of equitable geographical representation, in consultation with Member States;
	14.	Further decides that arrangements concerning the participation of non-governmental organizations, civil society and the private sector in the High-level Dialogue will in no way create a precedent for other meetings of the General Assembly; 
	15.	Requests the Secretary-General, within existing resources, to prepare a comprehensive overview of studies and analyses on the multidimensional aspects of migration and development, including the effects of migration on economic and social development in developed and developing countries, and on the effects of the movements of highly skilled migrant workers and those with advanced education;
	16.	Invites the Secretary-General to address also in his comprehensive overview in consultation with relevant United Nations organizations, short-term and seasonal workers within the issue of labour movements;
	17.	Invites the regional commissions to contribute to and coordinate dialogue at the regional level in preparation for the High-level Dialogue; 
	18.	Invites the President of the General Assembly, within existing resources, in consultation with Member States, and with the assistance of the Secretariat, to organize prior to the High-level Dialogue up to two panel discussions with a focus on its overall theme;
	19.	Notes that the Commission on Population and Development, the Commission for Social Development and the Commission on the Status of Women will have considered the issue of international migration within their respective mandates by the time of the High-level Dialogue, and invites their inputs through the Economic and Social Council;
	20.	Also notes that the Committee on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families will have considered the issue of protecting the rights of all migrant workers as a tool to enhance development, within its mandate, by the time of the High-level Dialogue, and invites the Secretary-General to make available for the High-level Dialogue the summary of the discussion in the Committee;
	21.	Invites appropriate regional consultative processes and other major initiatives undertaken by Member States in the field of international migration to contribute to the High-level Dialogue; 
	22.	Takes note of the report of the Global Commission on International Migration, and notes its contribution to the debate on international migration and development, and also takes note of the report as an input for consideration at the High-level Dialogue;
	23.	Reiterates that the outcome of the High-level Dialogue will be a Chairperson's summary, which will be widely distributed to Member States, observers, United Nations agencies and other appropriate organizations;
	24.	Requests the Secretary-General to prepare a note on the organization of work of the High-level Dialogue;
	25.	Recalls its request to the Secretary-General to submit a report to the General Assembly at its sixty-first session on the implementation of resolution 59/241;
	26.	Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its sixty-first session the sub-item entitled "International migration and development".

69th plenary meeting
23 December 2005
1 See resolution 60/1.
2 A/60/205.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0550122E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/60/227<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/60/227General AssemblyDistr.: General
7 April 2006Sixtieth session
Agenda item 54 (c)

05-50122

A/RES/60/227

A/RES/60/227

4

3

