[hj1]UNITED									A
NATIONS



             General Assembly


                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/54/153
                                                                          29 February 2000

                                                                          



Fifty-fourth session
Agenda item 114



	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/54/603)]


54/153.	Measures to combat contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance

    The General Assembly,

    Recalling its resolution 53/133 of 9 December 1998, and taking note of Commission on Human Rights resolution 1999/78 of 28 April 1999,1

    Stressing that the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 19932 attaches importance to the elimination of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and other forms of intolerance,

    Convinced that racism, as one of the exclusionist phenomena plaguing many societies, requires resolute action and cooperation for its eradication,


    Having examined the report of the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance,3 including its conclusions and recommendations,

    Deeply concerned that, despite continued efforts, racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, as well as acts of violence, persist and even grow in magnitude, incessantly adopting new forms, including tendencies to establish policies based on racial, religious, ethnic, cultural and national superiority or exclusivity,

    Deeply concerned also that those advocating racism and racial discrimination misuse new communication technologies, including the Internet, to disseminate their repugnant views,

    Noting that the use of such technologies can also contribute to combating racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance,

    Conscious of the fundamental difference between, on the one hand, racism and racial discrimination as governmental policy or resulting from official doctrines of racial superiority or exclusivity and, on the other hand, other manifestations of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance that are increasingly visible in segments of many societies and are perpetrated by individuals or groups, some of which manifestations are directed against migrant workers and members of their families,

    Reaffirming, in this regard, the responsibility of Governments for safeguarding and protecting the rights of individuals residing in their territory against crimes perpetrated by racist or xenophobic individuals or groups,

    Recognizing both the challenges and the opportunities in combating racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance in an increasingly globalized world,

    Noting with concern that racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance may be aggravated by, inter alia, inequitable distribution of wealth, marginalization and social exclusion,

    Deeply concerned that racism and racial discrimination against migrant workers continue to increase despite the efforts undertaken by the international community to protect the human rights of migrant workers and members of their families,


    Noting that the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, in its general recommendation XV (42) of 17 March 19934 concerning article 4 of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,5 holds that the prohibition of the dissemination of ideas based on racial superiority or racial hatred is compatible with the right to freedom of opinion and expression as outlined in article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights6 and in article 5 of the Convention,

    Noting also that the reports that the States parties submit under the Convention contain, inter alia, information about the causes of as well as measures to combat contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance,

    Particularly alarmed at the rise of racist and xenophobic ideas in political circles, in the sphere of public opinion and in society at large,

    Noting with appreciation that the Special Rapporteur will continue to pay attention to the rise of racist and xenophobic ideas in political circles, in the sphere of public opinion and in society at large,

    Underlining the importance of urgently eliminating growing and violent trends of racism and racial discrimination, and conscious that any form of impunity for crimes motivated by racist and xenophobic attitudes plays a role in weakening the rule of law and democracy and tends to encourage the recurrence of such crimes, and requires resolute action and cooperation for its eradication,

    Emphasizing the importance of creating conditions that foster greater harmony and tolerance within societies,

    1.	Reaffirms the proclamation of 2001 as the International Year of Mobilization against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance;7

    2.	Calls upon the relevant United Nations bodies, Member States and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to carry out, promote and disseminate activities and action within the framework of the commemorative year in order to strengthen its impact and ensure its success, in particular the outcome of the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance;

    3.	Expresses its full support and appreciation for the work of the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, encourages its continuation, and takes note with appreciation of the report of the Special Rapporteur;3

    4.	Requests the Special Rapporteur to continue his exchange of views with Member States, related United Nations organs and the specialized agencies, other relevant mechanisms and non-governmental organizations in order to further their effectiveness and mutual cooperation;

    5.	Commends the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination for its role in the effective implementation of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,5 which contributes to the fight against contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance;


    6.	Reaffirms that acts of racist violence against others stemming from racism do not constitute expressions of opinion but rather offences;

    7.	Declares that racism and racial discrimination are among the most serious violations of human rights in the contemporary world and must be combated by all available means;

    8.	Expresses its profound concern about and unequivocal condemnation of all forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, in particular all racist violence, including related acts of random and indiscriminate violence;

    9.	Also expresses its profound concern about and unequivocal condemnation of all forms of racism and racial discrimination, including propaganda, activities and organizations based on doctrines of superiority of one race or group of persons that attempt to justify or promote racism and racial discrimination in any form;

    10.	Expresses its profound concern about and condemnation of manifestations of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance against as well as stereotyping of migrant workers and members of their families, persons belonging to minorities and members of vulnerable groups in many societies;

    11.	Expresses deep concern about the increase in racial and xenophobic violence in many parts of the world, as well as the increasing number of associations established on the basis of racist and xenophobic platforms and charters, as reflected in the report of the Special Rapporteur;

    12.	Encourages all States to include in their educational curricula and social programmes at all levels, as appropriate, knowledge of and tolerance and respect for foreign cultures, peoples and countries;

    13.	Recognizes that the increasing gravity of different manifestations of racism, racial discrimination and xenophobia in various parts of the world requires a more integrated and effective approach on the part of the relevant mechanisms of United Nations human rights machinery;

    14.	Encourages Governments to take appropriate measures to eradicate all forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance;

    15.	Calls upon all States to review and, where necessary, revise their immigration policies with a view to eliminating all discriminatory policies and practices against migrants which are inconsistent with relevant international human rights instruments;

    16.	Condemns the misuse of print, audio-visual and electronic media and new communication technologies, including the Internet, to incite violence motivated by racial hatred;

    17.	Recognizes that Governments should implement and enforce appropriate and effective legislation to prevent acts of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance;

    18.	Calls upon all Governments and intergovernmental organizations, with the assistance of non-governmental organizations, as appropriate, to continue to supply relevant information to the Special Rapporteur to enable him to fulfil his mandate;


    19.	Commends non-governmental organizations for the action that they have taken against racism and racial discrimination and for the continuous support and assistance that they have provided to the victims of racism and racial discrimination; 

    20.	Urges all Governments to cooperate fully with the Special Rapporteur with a view to enabling him to fulfil his mandate, including the examination of incidents of contemporary forms of racism and racial discrimination, inter alia, against blacks, Arabs and Muslims, xenophobia, Negrophobia, anti-Semitism and related intolerance;

    21.	Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Special Rapporteur with all the necessary human and financial assistance to carry out his mandate efficiently, effectively and expeditiously and to enable him to submit an interim report to the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth session.


	 83rd plenary meeting
	17 December 1999

1 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1999, Supplement No. 3 (E/1999/23), chap. II, sect. A.
2 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
3 See A/54/347.
4 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 18 (A/48/18), chap. VIII, sect. B.
5 Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.
6 Resolution 217 A (III).
7 Resolution 53/132, sect. III.
[hj1]
<<ODS JOB NO>>N0029536E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/54/153<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------


00 29536	/...


00 29536	/...

A/RES/53/
Page 


	A/RES/54/153
	Page 


A/RES/53/
Page 



	/...


	/...

A/RES/54/153
Page 




	A/RES/54/153
	Page 








