[def1]UNITED									A
NATIONS



             General Assembly


                                                                          Distr.
                                                                          GENERAL

                                                                          A/RES/53/118
                                                                          5 February 1999

                                                                          



Fifty-third session
Agenda item 103


	RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

	[on the report of the Third Committee (A/53/618)]


53/118.  Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women

    The General Assembly,

    Recalling its resolution 51/68 of 12 December 1996,

    Bearing in mind that one of the purposes of the United Nations, as stated in Articles 1 and 55 of the Charter, is to promote universal respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction of any kind, including distinction as to sex,

    Affirming that women and men should participate equally in social, economic and political development, should contribute equally to such development and should share equally in improved conditions of life,

    Recalling the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993,1 in which the Conference reaffirmed that the human rights of women and the girl child were an inalienable, integral and indivisible part of universal human rights,


    Welcoming the agreed conclusions of the Commission on the Status of Women at its fortieth,2 forty-first3 and forty-second4 sessions regarding the implementation of the strategic objectives of the Platform for Action of the Fourth World Conference on Women,5 agreed conclusions 1997/2 of the Economic and Social Council6 on mainstreaming the gender perspective into all policies and programmes in the United Nations system and Council resolution 1998/26 of 28 July 1998, entitled "Advancement of women: implementation of the Platform for Action of the Fourth World Conference on Women and the role of operational activities in promoting, in particular, capacity-building and resource mobilization for enhancing the participation of women in development",

    Welcoming also the growing number of States parties to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,7 which now stands at one hundred and sixty-two,

    Taking note of the elaboration and adoption by the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women, at its sixteenth session, of general recommendation 23 on women in public life,8

    Having considered the report of the Committee on its eighteenth and nineteenth sessions,9

    Expressing concern at the great number of reports overdue and that continue to be overdue, in particular initial reports, which constitutes an obstacle to the full implementation of the Convention,

    1.	Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General10 on the status of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women;

    2.	Urges all States that have not yet ratified or acceded to the Convention to do so as soon as possible, so that universal ratification of the Convention can be achieved by the year 2000;

    3.	Emphasizes the importance of full compliance by States parties with their obligations under the Convention;


    4.	Urges States to limit the extent of any reservations they lodge to the Convention, to formulate any such reservations as precisely and as narrowly as possible, to ensure that no reservations are incompatible with the object and purpose of the Convention or otherwise incompatible with international treaty law, to review their reservations regularly with a view to withdrawing them and to withdraw reservations that are contrary to the object and purpose of the Convention or that are otherwise incompatible with international treaty law;

    5.	Invites States parties to the Convention to give due consideration to the statement regarding reservations to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women adopted by the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women11 to mark the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights;12

    6.	Takes note of the report of the Secretariat on reservations to the Convention;13

    7.	Urges States parties to the Convention to make all possible efforts to submit their reports on the implementation of the Convention in accordance with article 18 thereof and with the guidelines provided by the Committee and to cooperate fully with the Committee in the presentation of their reports;

    8.	Encourages the Secretariat to extend technical assistance to States parties, upon their request, in the preparation of reports, in particular initial reports, and invites Governments to contribute to those efforts;

    9.	Commends the Committee on its efforts to contribute to the effective implementation of the Convention;

    10.	Also commends the Committee for reducing the backlog of reports, inter alia, through improved internal methods of work, and notes the efforts of the Committee to continue to improve its internal methods of work;

    11.	Urges States parties to the Convention to take appropriate measures so that acceptance of the amendment to article 20, paragraph 1, of the Convention by a two-thirds majority of States parties can be reached as soon as possible so that the amendment may enter into force;

    12.	Expresses its appreciation for the additional meeting time allowing the Committee to hold two sessions annually, each of three weeks' duration, preceded by a pre-session working group of the Committee;

    13.	Emphasizes the need to ensure adequate financing and staff support for the effective functioning of the Committee, including for the dissemination of information;


    14.	Welcomes the progress made by the Open-ended Working Group on the Elaboration of a Draft Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women of the Commission on the Status of Women,14 and encourages the Working Group to continue its work with a view to completing it at the forty-third session of the Commission;

    15.	Encourages the strengthening of coordination between the Committee and the other human rights treaty bodies, and encourages the human rights treaty bodies to coordinate their activities in monitoring the implementation of human rights instruments for the full enjoyment by women of their human rights;

    16.	Invites the Committee to draw up joint general comments with other treaty bodies, within their respective mandates, on the universality, indivisibility, interdependence and interrelatedness of human rights, and invites the persons chairing the human rights treaty bodies, at their annual meetings, to explore ways and means to facilitate those activities;

    17.	Stresses that a comprehensive and integrated approach to the promotion and protection of the human rights of women, including the integration of the human rights of women into the mainstream of United Nations system-wide activities, requires systematic, increased and sustained attention to and implementation of the general recommendations of the Committee, at the request of the General Assembly, throughout the United Nations system;

    18.	Welcomes the submission of reports by specialized agencies, at the invitation of the Committee, on the implementation of the Convention in areas falling within the scope of their activities and the contribution of non-governmental organizations to the work of the Committee;

    19.	Commends the United Nations Development Fund for Women, the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Population Fund, the United Nations Children's Fund and others for building women's capacity to understand and use human rights instruments, particularly the Convention;

    20.	Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth session a report on the status of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the implementation of the present resolution.


	85th plenary meeting
	9 December 1998

1 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
2 Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1996, Supplement No. 6 (E/1996/26), chap. I, sect. C.1.
3 Ibid., 1997, Supplement No. 7 (E/1997/27), chap. I, sect. C.1.
4 Ibid., 1998, Supplement No. 7 and corrigendum (E/1998/27 and Corr.1), chap. I, sect. B, draft resolution IV.
5 Report of the Fourth World Conference on Women, Beijing, 4-15 September 1995 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.96.IV.13), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
6 A/52/3, chap. IV, para. 4.  For the final text, see Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-second Session, Supplement No. 3 (A/52/3/Rev.1).
7 Resolution 34/180, annex.
8 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-second Session, Supplement No. 38 (A/52/38/Rev.1), part two, chap. I, sect. A .
9 Ibid., Fifty-third Session, Supplement No. 38 (A/53/38/Rev.1).
10 A/53/318.
11 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-third Session, Supplement No. 38 (A/53/38/Rev.1), part two, chap. I, sect. A.
12 Resolution 217 A (III).
13 CEDAW/C/1997/4.
14 Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1998, Supplement No. 7 and corrigendum (E/1998/27 and Corr.1), annex II.
[def1]
<<ODS JOB NO>>N9976483E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/53/118<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

A/RES/53/118
Page 2





99-76483	/...


99-76483	/...

A/RES/53/118
Page 


	A/RES/53/118
	Page 



	/...


	/...





