[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 22 December 2003
[on the report of the Third Committee (A/58/498)]
58/134.	Follow-up to the Second World Assembly on Ageing


	The General Assembly,
	Recalling its resolution 57/167 of 18 December 2002, in which it endorsed the Political Declaration and the Madrid International Plan of Action on Ageing, 2002,1 and welcomed the preparation by the Programme on Ageing of the Division for Social Policy and Development of the Department of Economic and Social Affairs of the Secretariat of a road map for the process of implementing the Madrid Plan of Action, as well as its resolution 57/177 of 18 December 2002, in which it stressed, inter alia, the importance of mainstreaming a gender perspective,
	Recalling also Economic and Social Council resolution 2003/14 of 21 July 2003, in which the Council invited Governments, the United Nations system and civil society to participate in a "bottom-up" approach to the review and appraisal of the Madrid Plan of Action,
	Recalling further its resolution 57/270 B of 23 June 2003, in which it agreed to the framework for an integrated and coordinated implementation of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and summits in the economic and social fields and reaffirmed the importance of regularly reviewing the progress made in the implementation of the commitments undertaken at individual major United Nations conferences and summits in the economic, social and related fields,
	Recognizing that the follow-up to and the implementation of the outcome of the Second World Assembly on Ageing is an integral part of the integrated and coordinated implementation of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and summits,
	Recognizing also that a tremendous global demographic change is to be expected during the next fifty years, in both developing and developed countries, as well as in countries with economies in transition, and that since this change will be the most rapid in developing countries, where the older population is expected to quadruple over the same period of time, it is imperative that ageing be integrated into development policies for the attainment of internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration,2
	Aware that the lack of data disaggregated by age and sex is an impediment to the consideration of ageing issues and the situation of older persons at both the international and the national policy levels,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General;3
	2.	Also takes note of the road map for the implementation of the Madrid International Plan of Action on Ageing, 2002, contained in the report of the Secretary-General;
	3.	Invites Member States and the organizations and bodies of the United Nations system to incorporate ageing, as appropriate, into actions to achieve the internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration,2 in particular the goal on the eradication of poverty;
	4.	Stresses the need for action at the national and international levels to implement the Madrid Plan of Action,4 including the need to set national and international priorities and to select appropriate approaches to ensure that countries achieve a society for all ages;
	5.	Encourages the establishment of institutional linkages at the national level between national machineries for the advancement of women and those governmental entities responsible for the development, implementation and coordination of ageing-related policies and programmes;
	6.	Stresses that the role of civil society, including non-governmental organizations, is important in supporting Governments in their implementation and assessment of and follow-up to the Madrid Plan of Action;
	7.	Requests the Economic and Social Council to consider ageing when elaborating its list of cross-sectoral thematic issues common to the outcomes of major United Nations conferences and summits for the establishment of the multi-year programme of work for the coordination segment of its substantive session;
	8.	Requests the Commission for Social Development to integrate an ageing perspective in its consideration of priority themes related to the follow-up to the World Summit for Social Development;
	9.	Requests the Commission for Social Development and the Commission on the Status of Women to further coordinate and collaborate through their respective bureaux on the issue of older women within the framework of their respective multi-year programmes of work;
	10.	Recalls, in this regard, its request to each functional commission of the Economic and Social Council to examine its methods of work in order to better pursue the implementation of the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and summits, recognizing that there is no need for a uniform approach since each functional commission has its own specificity, while noting that modern methods of work can better guarantee the review of progress made in implementation at all levels, on the basis of a report containing recommendations to be submitted by the Secretary-General to each functional commission and relevant subsidiary body of the Economic and Social Council on its methods of work, in accordance with the provisions defined by the respective outcomes and relevant decisions taken by each body, bearing in mind the progress recently achieved in this regard by certain commissions, in particular the Commission on Sustainable Development, and recalling that the functional commissions and other relevant bodies of the Council should report to it no later than 2005 on the outcome of this examination;
	11.	Requests the Commission for Social Development to take up the issue of the periodicity and the format of the review of the implementation of the Madrid Plan of Action at its forty-second session, taking into account the provisions of resolution 57/270 B;
	12.	Stresses the importance of the collection of data and population statistics disaggregated by age and sex on all aspects of policy formulation by all countries, and encourages the relevant entities of the United Nations to support national efforts in capacity-building, especially those of developing countries and countries with economies in transition, takes note in this context of the establishment by the United Nations of an Internet-accessible database on ageing, and invites States to submit, whenever possible, information for inclusion in the database;
	13.	Requests the Statistical Commission to assist Member States in developing modalities for disaggregating data by age and sex;
	14.	Requests the organizations and bodies of the United Nations system and the specialized agencies to integrate ageing, including from a gender perspective, into their programmes of work and to report on their progress to the Commission for Social Development;
	15.	Invites the international financial institutions and the regional development banks to take older persons into account in their policies and projects as part of the effort to assist developing countries and countries with economies in transition in the implementation of the Madrid Plan of Action;
	16.	Recommends that the institutional linkages between United Nations gender focal points and focal points on ageing be strengthened in order to enhance the integration of the gender aspects of ageing within the system;
	17.	Welcomes the progress made in the work of some of the regional commissions in implementing the objectives and recommendations of the Madrid Plan of Action, and encourages other regional commissions to make progress in this regard;
	18.	Requests the Secretary-General to forward his report3 to the Commission for Social Development at its forty-second session and to make available any other relevant information related to this issue that may assist the Commission in its deliberations;
	19.	Also requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session on the implementation of the present resolution.

77th plenary meeting
22 December 2003
1 Report of the Second World Assembly on Ageing, Madrid, 8-12 April 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.IV.4), chap. I, resolution 1, annexes I and II.
2 See resolution 55/2.
3 A/58/160.
4 Report of the Second World Assembly on Ageing, Madrid, 8-12 April 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.IV.4), chap. I, resolution 1, annex II.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0350262E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/58/134<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

3
    

3

United NationsA/RES/58/134General AssemblyDistr.: General
26 January 2004Fifty-eighth session
Agenda item 107

03 50262

A/RES/58/134

A/RES/58/134

2

3

