[DU1]
Resolution adopted by the General Assembly
[on the report of the Second Committee (A/57/533)]
57/263.	Economic and technical cooperation among developing countries


	The General Assembly,
	Stressing that South-South cooperation, as an important element of international cooperation for development, offers viable opportunities for developing countries in their individual and collective pursuit of sustained economic growth and sustainable development,
	Recognizing that developing countries have the primary responsibility for promoting and implementing South-South cooperation, not as a substitute for but rather as a complement to North-South cooperation, and in this context reiterating the need for the international community to support the efforts of the developing countries to expand South-South cooperation,
	Taking note of the Ministerial Declaration adopted by the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the States members of the Group of 77 at their twenty-sixth annual meeting, held in New York on 19 September 2002,1 in which the increased importance and relevance of South-South cooperation were re-emphasized,
	1.	Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on measures to promote and facilitate South-South cooperation;2
	2.	Notes with satisfaction that developing countries have succeeded in setting elaborate action plans for South-South cooperation, and urges developing countries and their partners to intensify South-South and triangular initiatives contributing to the achievement of the internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the United Nations Millennium Declaration;3
	3.	Encourages developing countries to strengthen their national coordination mechanisms in order to improve the effectiveness of South-South and triangular cooperation, and in this connection also encourages other bilateral and multilateral development partners to do the same, as appropriate;
	4.	Reiterates the urgent need to help to strengthen institutions and centres of excellence in the South, especially at the regional and interregional levels, with a view to making more effective use of such entities towards improved South-South knowledge-sharing, networking, capacity-building, information exchange, policy analysis and coordinated action among developing countries on major issues of common concern;
	5.	Recommends that the High-level Committee on the Review of Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries review all aspects of South-South cooperation relevant to development;
	6.	Requests the Secretary-General, through coordination of the Special Unit for Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries of the United Nations Development Programme, and in consultation with Member States and relevant organizations and agencies, to carry out a study, within existing resources, with a view to promoting public awareness of the importance and contribution of South-South and triangular cooperation with respect to achieving the internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the Millennium Declaration and, in this context, to make concrete proposals to promote and facilitate South-South cooperation and to raise such public awareness, inter alia, on the value added and implications of the proposed international decade on South-South cooperation and the United Nations day for South-South cooperation, and to submit the findings and recommendations thereon to the General Assembly at its fifty-eighth session;
	7.	Reiterates the emphasis placed in the Monterrey Consensus of the International Conference on Financing for Development4 on the need for multilateral and bilateral financial and development institutions to intensify efforts, inter alia, to strengthen South-South and triangular cooperation as delivery tools for assistance to developing countries and countries with economies in transition;5
	8.	Takes note of decision 2002/18 of 27 September 2002, taken by the Executive Board of the United Nations Development Programme and of the United Nations Population Fund,6 in which the Board decided to allocate a fixed annual amount of 3.5 million dollars to the Special Unit for Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries;
	9.	Calls upon all relevant United Nations organizations and multilateral institutions to intensify their efforts to effectively mainstream the use of South-South cooperation in the design, formulation and implementation of their regular programmes, and to consider increasing allocations of human, technical and financial resources for South-South cooperation;
	10.	Recognizes the need to mobilize additional resources for enhancing South-South cooperation, and, in this context, invites all countries, in particular developed countries, to contribute in support of such cooperation through, inter alia, the Pérez-Guerrero Trust Fund for Economic and Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries and the Voluntary Trust Fund for the Promotion of South-South Cooperation, bearing in mind the need for these Funds to continue to use such resources in an effective manner, and decides to include the latter fund in the United Nations Pledging Conference for Development Activities, as long as it exists;
	11.	Requests the Secretary-General to include in the agenda of the thirteenth session of the High-level Committee on the Review of Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries a special segment to commemorate the twenty-fifth anniversary of the adoption of the Buenos Aires Plan of Action for Promoting and Implementing Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries.7

78th plenary meeting
20 December 2002
1 A/57/444, annex.
2 A/57/155.
3 See resolution 55/2.
4 Report of the International Conference on Financing for Development, Monterrey, Mexico, 18-22 March 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.02.II.A.7), chap. I, resolution 1, annex.
5 Ibid., para. 43.
6 See DP/2003/2.
7 Report of the United Nations Conference on Technical Cooperation among Developing Countries, Buenos Aires, 30 August-12 September 1978 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.78.II.A.11 and corrigendum), chap. I.
[DU1]<<ODS JOB NO>>N0255666E<<ODS JOB NO>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>A/RES/57/263<<ODS DOC SYMBOL1>>
<<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>><<ODS DOC SYMBOL2>>
_______________

------------------------------------------------------------

---------------

------------------------------------------------------------

1
    

1

United NationsA/RES/57/263General AssemblyDistr.: General
28 February 2003Fifty-seventh session
Agenda item 88

02 55666

A/RES/57/263

A/RES/57/263

2

3

